# Sansha Kuvakei
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/sansha-kuvakei

Now infamous as the leader of one of the most feared factions in New Eden, **Sansha Kuvakei** was once merely a wealthy [Caldari](7unGNsrMFwIWXMMbrM2jfy) industrial mogul whose family had made its fortune in armament manufacturing during the [Gallente-Caldari War](1ehjby0lOpdwMJf9CprPtV).

He considered the empires to be
narrow-minded and primitive while seeing himself as a visionary with the
answer to mankind's problems and so when the empires began endorsing
free-for-all colonization shortly after first contact Sansha saw it as
an ideal vehicle for unfettered technological research and military
conquest and acquired a sizable chunk of the systems available to the
public. This grew to a domain extending over several systems, with
smaller pockets scattered around the known world, and later a small
empire spanning multiple regions.

Birth of a Nation
-----------------

He used his charm, growing fame, and wealth to create an image of
himself as a new messiah and his domain as the Promised Land and
countless millions of followers were eventually attracted to Sansha's
dream of a better way, a new Paradise where every citizen was free to
pursue their dreams.

Sansha Kuvakei had built up a dynamic empire with a glorious fleet
hailed as the perfect utopian state and the marvel of the world. But
this was just part of his dreams fulfillment. Deep in his secret
facilities in the heart of Stain, Sansha had melded man and machine to
create unquestioning cybernetic slaves who he intended to serve as
soldiers in the coming war. His dream was that these zombie-like [True Slaves](2OMQ8inZvuePjeJdMpDz3B) would free other more worthy people to
pursue peaceful and productive lives. Sansha believed his actions were
for the benefit of mankind and while it is unknown at what point during
his empires growth the first True Slaves were created it is known that
only at this point did he announced the birth of his [Sansha's Nation](6dFZYDkE3R4BRF9w21mtjP).

When the existence of Sansha's experiments became public knowledge the
Nation lost most of its inhabitants, but while only the fanatical True
Citizens and True Slaves remained it was during this time that it
reached the height of its power.

Gathering Storm
---------------

Reactions beyond his domain were immediate and intense both among the
peoples of [New Eden](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk) and their
governments. Seeing his ethical transgressions and the military threat
his Nation had concealed the empires condemned Sansha who not only
refused to cease using and producing True Slaves but started even more
advanced projects on the same theme. Sansha and his people believed
themselves safe, anticipating that the legions of True Slaves in Stain
would remain an impenetrable shield that none could pass. But what they
hadn't counted on was that the empires, with the [Gallente Federation](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK) at the forefront, would set aside their
differences and establish the first (and to this date last) Alliance of
Empires to bring his nation down.

When hostilities began Sansha turned his True Slaves on everyone within
his domain that was not of the Nation and while those left held out for
some months the forces arrayed against Sansha's Nation were too great to
defeat and his empire crumbled. His forces were scattered to the wind
and all his factories and space installations were destroyed and it is
believed Sansha himself was killed during the final assault on his
stronghold.

A Nation in Ruins
-----------------

While Sansha's legacy lived on in the form of the survivors of his
Nation, there are those who claim that Sansha is not dead, that before
he died he hid a number of clones of himself in secret locations the
empires never discovered. What is known is that Sansha's corpse was
never found. Considering the rebuilding of the Nation, the organization
of its members, and the advancement of it's technologies it seems
evident that someone or something is guiding the Nation. Even among the
True Slaves rumors persist that the "Master" is not gone.

The Dream Lives
---------------

A recent resurgence of Sansha's Nation with raids into high security
space with the apparent objective of large scale civilian abductions and
interactions on Galnet by a man claiming to be Kuvakei has resulted in
much speculation. It is unclear at this time if "Master Kuvakei" is
Sansha, a clone or somebody else taking on his name and persona. What is
clear is the ideas and mission of Kuvakei live on and remain a very
grave threat to New Eden.

True Sansha combat fleets of carriers and supercarriers have been seen
raiding planets, kidnapping citizens of all four empires for some
unknown purpose.
