# Vuld Haupt
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/vuld-haupt

Vuld Haupt is the popular spiritual leader of the
Sebiestor Tribe. A prominent and well-spoken
cultural figure, Vuld has also earned respect for his progressive
attitude and desire to promote engagement with spirituality. He
pioneered a new ceremony for capsuleers that draws upon
centuries' old beliefs and is a firm believer in the evolution of
rituals. Haupt has attracted media attention for most of his life and
has declared a strong desire to utilize this to promote his faith and
engage with his people. He actively fulfills his responsibilities as a
religious and cultural figurehead.

Early Life
----------

The only child of a cardiologist and mental health technician, born in
YC77 in the arctic regions of
[Matar](5gheCRHTWLbi5jzbo5vvT6), Vuld Haupt rose to prominence for apparently
passing on messages from the incumbent spiritual leader, Calo Hayek, at
the moment of his death. While Vuld later explained that he always felt
the presence of his ancestors around him when he was young, it wasn't
until a near-death experience at age seven that he was identified as the
new leader of the Sebiestor faith.

Vuld had been playing on a makeshift sled that he and his friends had
made themselves from a sheet of rusting fernite when he impacted with
the surface of one of [Mikramurka's](5gheCRHTWLbi5jzbo5vvT6) many
ice lakes and slipped into the freezing water. Trapped for over thirty
minutes, kept alive thanks to an air pocket he managed to find, he
eventually lost consciousness due to circulatory arrest and drifted
further under the surface of the ice, fortunately right into view of
those who had been attempting to find and recover him. Since his
cardiologist father was one of those on the scene by this time, he was
able to perform a timely resuscitation. Regardless of efforts to keep
him alive, by the time an ambulance had arrived he was once again
arresting. Even more deathly pale than Sebiestor usually are, and not
breathing on his own, those that were rushing Vuld to the nearest
hospital later described how he suddenly sat bolt upright in the
shuttle. He had then looked at each of those tending to his ice-cold
body, which to that point had not responded to defibrillation, with eyes
that were almost completely black thanks to the dilation of the pupils.
For the next seven minutes, in the voice of an old man, he recited
prayers in ancient Matari. One of those tending to him had the presence
of mind to start recording what Vuld was saying. The subsequent tape was
to serve as a singular piece of evidence in determining whether the
Sebiestor had found their new spiritual leader.

Book of Todram
--------------

On subsequent review many attest that the recording is actually Calo
Hayek himself, and it has been compared with a sample of the previous
spiritual leader on many occasions. It is invariably found to be a match
despite the circumstances in which it was obtained.

One of the prayers that is repeated more than once on the recording is a
mediation that serves as the seminal entry written by Hayek in his Book
of Todram. This journal is a collection of personal reflections in which
the current spiritual leader is tasked with not only reinterpreting past
wisdom but also recording his own contemplations as to the next
incarnation of the figurehead. The book serves as the principal tool for
seven priests convened to identify the next avatar of the faith to find
and question candidates. It also serves to prompt the current leader to
reflect on what the Sebiestor need spiritually. Writings are
traditionally allegorical and poetic in style, and formally structured
in a rhythmic pattern that proffers their use as meditative prayers. A
particular task for the writer is the composition and phrasing of a
singular meditation, or Todram, that will serve as the most direct means
to guide those trying to determine who the replacement will be. Hayek
was famed for writing exact lines from his predecessor's Todram in his
own contemplations during his trials, and Vuld was similarly lauded when
his recording was brought to public attention. While Haupt was the
oldest child yet to be chosen, the evidence was considered indisputable.

After news agencies publicized details of what had transpired on the
journey from the ice lake, many sought out the child that had himself
"died", and then "returned from the waters of Mikramurka with messages
for our people". This attention prompted a visit by a prominent though
besieged statesman on Matar for guidance despite the perception that it
would be a move that would end his stalling career. When the
politician's approval ratings instead experienced a resurgence, it
became common practice for many other leaders in the
[Pator](7MdCKy2OEJTpJSItRgx8DX) system to visit the young Haupt. Vuld was also
increasingly sought out by the media for comment on all manner of social
issues, a situation that has persisted well into the current day.

A Life of Ritual
----------------

After his testing, Vuld left his parents to begin instruction at the
Nochgefror Shrine, the traditional home of the current spiritual leader.
Apart from some time spent in formal education in his teens Vuld was to
reside, primarily, within the imposing structure's walls until his
death. Here he was instructed in the traditions, prayers and ceremonies
of his faith and tasked with passing on his knowledge and wisdom to
those that visited.

The life of the spiritual leader is governed by rituals. One that Vuld
Haupt quickly engaged with was a practice based aroud engaging with the
community. One week of every month the current figurehead is expected to
leave Nochgefror to be among his people, working alongside them in
whatever task they engage in. Sebiestor from across Heimatar and
Metropolis in particular could petition for the spiritual leader to
spend a week with them, as it was always said to bring good fortune to
whoever housed them. Haupt, and all before him, need to work in manual
labor of some kind during this time, side by side with whoever had
successfully requested the leader's presence. Haupt himself has worked
in a number of diverse settings; from orphanages caring for those that
had lost their parents in the conflicts of Sebiestor rebels; to a
station repairing exhumers collecting and refining ice; to time spent
amongst maintenance personnel in a high tech production plant producing
wetware mainframes. This ritual ensures that the spiritual leader is in
contact with his people despite their itinerant ways, as space travel
has Sebiestor spreading far and wide from Matar. It also reinforces that
the people are themselves practical, and that even the most high-minded
among them ensure they are also rooted in reality.

Another week of every month in the life of the leader is spent in
adherence to a time of meditation, quiet and veneration of the dead.
Every year the Festival of the Dead, where the spirits of the ancestors
walk amongst the Matari, occurs during one of these weeks. The spiritual
leader is required to wear only black during this week, and accept no
visitors. This period has traditionally been a time in which they could
rest and contemplate, though Sebiestor can also petition them to conduct
a ritual of death as a blessing of the spirit of a deceased loved one.
The spiritual leader is under no obligation to conduct any funerals
during this time, but Vuld Haupt is well regarded for his willingness to
do so. He has also impressed many of his followers with the particular
solemnity that he brings to these events, and the regularity with which
he has chosen to conduct these services for commoners and the poor.

Both of these weeks correspond with the duality that runs through
Sebiestor belief, where one is either in contact with a sense of self,
ancestry and spirituality, known as andesh, or disconnected from these
essential parts of life, and so entered into ohnesh. It is an adherence
to the material that is seen as the path to the latter, and the task of
the leader is to guide followers back to a state of connectedness,
reverence and self-awareness. The material and spiritual worlds are not
mutually exclusive, but intertwined and symbiotic. This belief is seen
most predominantly amongst the Sebiestor in their tendency to have
talismans or other material objects that are not only blessed but serve
as a direct connection with the spiritual world around them. Sebiestor
tinkerers, for example, will often have a particular hand-held tool
blessed, a tradition that harkens back to an age where the Sebiestor
huddled in frigid mountain caves, and the loss of a tool important to
their survival meant a cold death. Most Sebiestor that visit the
figurehead will have an object with them that they wish a blessing
performed on. The spiritual leader can also perform such a blessing on
provisions. Even at a young age Vuld Haupt was being asked to bless
objects for people, despite their station in life.

The Kyyeki Document
-------------------

After concern at the number of political figures that were consulting
with a child, and the debate that this caused in public forums, it was a
young Vuld himself that suggested that those outside Nochgefror put him
to the test. While Sebiestor religious authorities at first protested,
they eventually agreed with the new leader, who suggested it would be an
excellent way to unite the spiritual and material worlds.
[Gallente](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK) researchers were the first to jump at
the opportunity to examine Haupt, considering the reluctance of their
own reborn [Intaki](5DUTZnySsYNmzbNQVPGXZn) to subject their beliefs to
critical scrutiny. The [University of Caille](3yrFWFSjOxnFu1GTFhudTM) petitioned Nochgefror,
requesting access to the latest incarnation of the Sebiestor faith, but
this request was denied. Despite sending a team of researchers to the
shrine to then personally plead their case, those attending the young
Haupt turned them down again, explaining that it was best that the
inquiry be conducted by Minmatar. Pator Tech School led the eventual study into Haupt,
focusing on his general knowledge, awareness of tradition, and then
eventually the assertion that he was the vessel for the wisdom of the
ancestors. Professor Doam Kyyeki, a prominent researcher of
consciousness who had led several of the Republic's inquiries into the
transfer of self from clone to clone amongst capsuleers, conducted the
inquiry. After twenty-seven days spent with the young Haupt the research
team published the 'Kyyeki Document', concluding that he was in
possession of knowledge far beyond his years and experience. There were
also several documented cases of phenomena that could not be explained
despite scrutiny under laboratory conditions. This research has been
quoted frequently in the decades that followed, and has had its
methodology both questioned and defended many times. The University of
Caille in particular has questioned the scientific rigor of the research
that was conducted on a number of occasions.

A particularly startling incident from the document details how Haupt
had been talking about the Sebiestor belief that spirits and people live
in overlapping worlds when one of the researchers demanded some sort of
physical proof. Those present in the room on Matar were then supposedly
showered with the petals of a flower found on Nakugard III, from a
region where the researcher's mother had been born.

Through the Ohnesh
------------------

In his late teens Vuld left his quarters at Nochgefror for formal
studies at Pator Tech School, most notably taking the classes of Doam
Kyyeki. He still observed monthly rituals during these four years, but
lived amongst other students when he wasn't- also a tradition for each
spiritual figurehead. Haupt went through a "rebellious phase" during
this time where he was known to be verbally abusing many of those that
went to his campus to get his guidance. This period culminated in an
alleged assault of a reporter who had approached him near his temporary
campus home. Vuld has never denied this, and has been candid about this
time of his life in both interviews and his own writings. He attributes
the pressures of being thrust into the public eye throughout his youth
for the increasingly dark tone that his interactions and reflections
adopted at the time. He refers to the principle of andesh as having
"brought him back to the light," though an academic was also known to
have mentored him at the time as well and has been credited with being
largely responsible for realigning his moral compass. While Vuld
protects their identity, and instead credits the strength of his beliefs
for his recovery from his personal ohnesh, many suspect that this was
the literary professor Maxeene Keel that helped him. Evidence for this
is that Haupt started writing his own literary works at this time, which
became very popular and broadened his exposure in New Eden, not only
among the Sebiestor but the other tribes. The forward of his first
largely autobiographical book, *Through the Ohnesh*, was penned by Keel.
She also separated from her husband in the months before this book was
published in YC102, and this has always been rumored to be due to an
affair with Haupt. While there have been attempts to establish this,
particularly by those that wish to discredit Haupt as a moral authority,
there has never been any admission from either party, or any others
approached about the issue, including Keel's ex-husband.

Regardless of their origins, Vuld Haupt's published reflections are
cherished by many of his followers, and have become very important to
the Sebiestor, as they also detail many of their beliefs. The texts are
also known to have a following amongst the Gallente, particularly the
Intaki, though principally as thought-provoking literature rather than
religious material.

Criticism and Controversy
-------------------------

One of Vuld Haupt's principal detractors is Severin Montfort, from the
University of Caille, who was one of the researchers that had been
turned away from Nochgefror when the university tried to conduct the
inquiry into the young Sebiestor. An academic who has forged a career
out of writing about scientific concepts and ideas in layman's terms,
Montfort was one of those that criticized the Kyyeki Document as being
methodologically flawed. He suggested that it was also biased and
constructed specifically to portray the spiritual leader in a positive
light. He also attested that the research that produced the document was
motivated not by a desire to scientifically analyze Haupt and the
legitimacy of the beliefs he exemplified but instead reinforce and
uphold them. Montfort has frequently been sought for comment whenever
Haupt has been quoted in the media anywhere in New Eden. It has been
noted that Severin's written works, while popular in Gallente space,
have consistently sold in fewer numbers when in direct competition with
the latest published reflections of Vuld Haupt.

Severin is not the only person that has been critical of Haupt, as there
are also Matar political figures that resent the way that the media
always goes to the religious leader for final comment. Leaders often
point out his unreliability in terms of his availability, his idealistic
views, and occasionally romanticized or naive statements and reactions
when he has been approached by the media. He has also been accused of
sensationalizing his people's beliefs. Despite this attention Vuld has
welcomed scrutiny, is always willing to engage in dialogue with his
critics and has made several statements in the media that have indicated
as much.

> If you think that I do not welcome critical examination of what I'm
sharing with you, then you have no understanding of who I am, nor the
Sebiestor people. I'd encourage you to think. Take none of this at face
value. Belief is about being open to possibility, which is all I ask of
you. Belief can be the wellspring of intuition and innovation. It is not
a lack of awareness or acceptance of another explanation. I think you'll
find that's ignorance.

The Blessing of Clones
----------------------

Vuld's most significant act as spiritual leader of the Sebiestor has
been to ritualize the practice of blessing the clones of capsuleers.
This began as a desire for ritual cleansing of cloning vats and
facilities that would house the bodies of Sebiestor capsuleers, but has
evolved under Vuld's guidance to become a ceremony in which a capsuleer
is asked to meditate face-to-face with their own clone for a time. The
ritual asks the capsuleer to come to an awareness and appreciation of
the spiritual world despite their further removal from it, through
meditation on what separates them from the body that they do not
inhabit. Haupt's rationale was that those that these pilots where
especially disposed to the loss of spiritual connection that comes with
ohnesh, since they experience death without the subsequent blessing that
accompanies it, and are increasingly rooted in the material.

Some Sebiestor capsuleers are known to go to lengths to recover their
frozen corpses after pod death, so that they might once again undergo
the ritual as a proxy funeral with a body they have lost instead of a
body they are to enter. This is particularly true of Sebiestor that have
lost talismans in a wreck as well.

Current Status
--------------

Haupt's belief that science and religion are complimentary, both
exploring worlds that will one day be united, is not only a central
tenet of his culture, but has recently led to his investment in wormhole
exploration. He has suggested that it is the prime example of science
being the tool by which humanity's progress can lead them to also evolve
spiritually. He issued a statement in the wake of the
CreoDron expedition spearheaded by [Lianda Burreau](4YD4PXslOcnv8rY7av4vn2), which paved the way for the
exploration of wormhole space.

>We stand at a hopeful crossroad in human history. Stretching out before
us for the first time in millennia are the paths of our ancestors. The
time has come to cast aside our differences such that we, humanity's
wayward brothers and sisters, may once again return home.

Despite a negative response from his foil, Severin Montfort, Haupt then
began organizing an expedition into wormhole space. Originally intended
to take place within days the expedition was grounded in the wake of
Burreau's disappearance. It was several months before Haupt could
organize another expedition, which ventured into a hole that opened in
the Eystur system in April of YC111 with a group made up largely of capsuleers. He barely survived after those he
was with were attacked while approaching one of the structures that lay
beyond, and was returned to k-space with injuries that saw him
hospitalized. Before he was fully recovered, he vowed to return despite
the dangers, saying that he felt "called". Haupt has also been making
several requests to both the Republic and to CONCORD to intercede in the
unregulated salvage of Sleeper technology.

>We must seriously question our motivations when we are stealing from those that have gone before, and the impact that our pillaging of what they have left behind may have on us - and on them.

Vuld Haupt has indicated that he has recorded in his own Book of Todram
that the next spiritual leader of the Sebiestor will be found among the
capsuleers. This idea has not been well received among religious
traditionalists.

See also
--------

-   [Minmatar](1rpu7pfwTPVznAczjw2pOp)
-   [Minmatar](40nl7pEhSb7UyCF6Px4fiY)
