# Handheld Video Cameras
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/handheld-video-cameras

**Handheld video cameras** are a near-ubiquitous item in [New Eden](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk), allowing virtually anyone to
record a scene and stream it onto computers and vid screens across the cluster through GalNet. A variety of models exist, from cheaply made units with poor resolution to high quality models that see use among professionals.

History
-------

Video cameras have existed for thousands of years. The earliest models
utilized archaic technologies such as photosensitive film which required
subsequent chemical development or magnetic tapes. Though still used by
a few devoted enthusiasts, film technology was only popular for about a
century. Once high-quality digital capture and storage was developed,
film fell by the wayside except for specialist uses and steadily
declined as digital technology matched and eventually surpassed the
quality obtainable by physical media.

Handheld video cameras have been popular with consumers since they were
first introduced. Lightweight, portable, and easy to use, they allowed
families to record precious moments, amateur directors to shoot their
own cheap movies, and the spontaneous capturing of important events.
Even professionals found use for them; some directors utilized them to
evoke "gritty" or "realistic" first-person experiences, investigative
journalists were able to film subjects without the need for an intrusive
camera crew, and law enforcement could take video of crime scenes at a
moment's notice.

Three major innovations spurred the spread of the handheld video camera.
The first was the move from physical media; freed from the burden of
having to constantly carry around spare cassettes or disks, consumers
were able to record virtually any event they wanted quickly and then
later transfer it to a computer for permanent storage. The second was
miniaturization, as the cameras became smaller and less bulky, able to
fit into a pocket or inconspicuous handbag while still being capable of
taking high-quality video. This meant that the cameras could be carried
around regularly, as opposed to only when special events were expected
to occur. Finally, permanent wireless access to digital networks such as
the ancestors of GalNet gave users the ability to stream video as it was
recorded to potentially millions of viewers.

Today, a person is as likely to own some sort of handheld video camera
as not. The cheapest models are only capable of poor-resolution video
and sound quality, with limited storage and broadcast capabilities. More
expensive models are comparable in quality to professional movie
cameras, with the ability to stream maximum quality sound and video to
relays in real-time.

Design
------

Most video cameras are fairly simplistic in design, featuring a lens, a
microphone, a view screen, and a storage device. Cheaper models usually
have a fixed lens with digital zoom only, with a microphone that does
little to squelch background noise, and enough storage to record only a
few hours of high-resolution video. These models are mostly popular with
the lower classes and young people, who may use them for a variety of
mundane and potentially inane applications.

High-end models have adjustable lenses, with some even having the
capability to swap between a variety of different lenses for additional
control. Their microphones are capable of clearly picking up a nearby
speaker against even extreme background noise, or pinpointing a certain
sound source across a noisy room. They often have entangled particles,
giving them direct connections to fluid routers for real-time
broadcasting. The extra equipment makes them somewhat more bulky than
cheaper models, though for sufficient money, even the smallest cameras
can possess spectacular capabilities.

### Variations and Modifications

Numerous different specialized types of video cameras exist. They can
vary from the high-tech to fairly low-tech do-it-yourself styles.

Eye cameras are cameras attuned to the user's vision. They automatically
follow and focus on whatever the individual is looking at. They do not
necessarily have to be at the location of the user; a person can plant
an eye camera several meters or more away. By tying the eye camera to a
handheld monitor or even goggles, the user can get a view of several
different angles in real time.

Thought-controlled cameras enable a handheld camera to become hands
free. While still small and portable, the cameras can be mounted on a
tripod, placed on a flat surface, or even attached to mounting and used
without direct interaction from the user. Some models require implants
to activate, but others simply use dermal patches that pick up
electrical activity in the nervous system. These are typically less
precise than those using actual implants.

For those who wish a more visceral and chaotic experience,
emotion-controlled cameras exist. These cameras are set to activate only
when a person experiences certain emotions. These emotions can be of any
sort; anger, excitement, passion, ennui, fear, mirth, even (for whatever
reason) boredom. These cameras are somewhat more random than others and
can be activated suddenly and unexpectedly. This is usually the point of
using them, however, and they are widespread among
[Gallente](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK) sensates.

A rather unique phenomenon has arisen in the slums and ghettos of the
[Minmatar Republic](1rpu7pfwTPVznAczjw2pOp). Owing to the
ingenuity of the Minmatar, a number of homemade video cameras exist.
Such cameras are often constructed from spare parts and schematics taken
from GalNet feeds. They can vary wildly in appearance and functionality
depending on the skill of the individual builder and the materials they
have to work with. Some have exposed wires, mismatched lenses and
mirrors, may lack eye pieces or viewscreens, and can have bodies
composed of everything from cardboard boxes to cans to plastic toys to
actual salvaged camera parts.

Uses
----

### Mundane

Most users utilize their handheld video cameras to record personal
moments, such as parties, holiday gatherings, vacations, and family
events. Many, particularly young people, have a proclivity for filming
all manner of mundane events, including everything from meals to
watching holovids to daily commutes. Some take pleasure in recording
pranks, acts of slapstick violence, and other inane activities in an
effort to create viral videos for consumption on GalNet.

Because of the ubiquity of video cameras, most events occurring in
public places are likely to be recorded by some passerby. Some have
contended that this has made public areas safer, as someone with a video
camera could easily be recording any unusual behavior. Others have
fretted over the loss of privacy that the prevalence of handheld video
cameras has caused.

Many [Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) utilize the cameras to record religious
sermons to be replayed and studied later. Small churches, especially
those who cannot afford to make regular broadcasts, encourage their
parishioners in this regard. Of course, there are some places where the
Amarr have forbidden cameras, such as in highly sanctified sites such as
the [Tal-Romon Cathedral](sQa3CgriPhcdRyu5wArOb) and the royal
courts of the [Heirs](54zoGW31RF0k0QF9KkOBjh). This does not stop some
from smuggling in cameras to record what they should not.

### Law and Security

Law enforcement makes use of handheld video cameras extensively. Police
utilize them to record crime scene investigations in order to avoid
having the authenticity of evidence called into question. Investigators
often take them on off-site interviews to accurately record the physical
and vocal responses of interviewees. Patrol officers frequently utilize
them even in mundane situations such as traffic stops in order to limit
their own liability should something occur.

Some small cameras can be fitted with organic camouflage, morph fields,
or even made to resemble inconspicuous bits of scenery. These can then
be hidden in plain sight for use in security applications. Such uses are
popular in areas where obvious cameras would be jarring or unsightly,
such as Gallente tourist traps or Amarr religious institutions.

### Illicit

In the Gallente Federation, especially since the formation of the [Black Eagles](6eVk3icIk4UHf5Uh799xDN), rumors abound of secret agents dressed
in plain clothes using ordinary cameras to record tourists and even
common citizens. According to the rumors, these agents are
[ethnic Gallente](3EpC4caJJoKabd5hUdGASf), typically wear brightly
colored shirts, short pants, sunglasses, and are recording seemingly
random and uninteresting scenes for hours at a time. The rumors put
these agents at space ports and popular locations across the Federation,
even on lightly populated fringe areas. Their true purpose, if they
actually exist, is unknown.

Handheld cameras are often utilized in corporate espionage. There is a
continuous race between the makers of spy cameras to keep their cameras
hidden and security forces to detect them. Spy cameras have become
somewhat of a running joke in many [Caldari](7unGNsrMFwIWXMMbrM2jfy)
research and development facilities, as they simultaneously develop new
methods of concealing their spy cameras and the methods of detecting
those same cameras.

More mundane spying is also utilized with the cameras. The [Angel Cartel](3p6aB4GMbVdMUEVYOb3kF0) and [Serpentis](3igWGHqQJXyJoUnM2XgGJC)
are notorious for secretly recording politicians and law enforcement
officials in unsavory situations. The [Guristas](55L861YhB1ZfaAST6ZbhdO)
have, on several occasions, utilized cameras to spy on corporate
security forces and strike when their guards are down.

### Media

Journalists, particularly investigative reporters, have long utilized
handheld video cameras. Their small size and portability makes it easier
to access areas or people that would usually be off-limits to the press.
While the quality of such recordings cannot match a professional
cameraman's, they are usually enough to get the job done. Paparazzi, of
course, favor them for incessantly hounding the famous.

See Also
--------

-   [Domestic items](1atx3NGYkl3oP5JiEa1ShQ#domestic)
-   [Chronicle: The Speaker of Truths](2O47ZdRbnohMLKgDhmLJGk)
