# Civire
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/civire

Whether engaged in trade or
combat, the **Civire** are absolute masters of focused aggression.
Highly competitive individuals, they thrive under chaotic circumstances
and frenetic activity. They are often employed in highly stressful
industrial and military professions due to an innate ability to think
quickly on their feet and remain composed under pressure.

Racial Traits
-------------

Civire males typically follow a strong, inflexible moral code, and often
see the world in rigid terms of black and white. Never at ease when
idle, they identify themselves through their work and expect others to
do the same, often at the cost of personal relationships.

Like their male counterparts, female Civire strive for excellence in the
pursuit of all endeavors. Their strict devotion to a moral code makes
them highly judgmental of those who fail to live up to the
[Caldari](7unGNsrMFwIWXMMbrM2jfy) standard. Renowned disciplinarians, they
are also great teachers, and proudly embrace the responsibility of
passing the Caldari way on to the next generation.

Ancestries
----------

### Dissenters

The cold discipline of Caldari society does not appeal to everyone, nor
is everyone happy with the stranglehold that corporate rulers have on
everyday life. While not outright rebellious, dissenters nonetheless
invest considerable time and effort in trying to change the system from
within. The State keeps a close eye on these individuals.

### Mercs

Many Civire have a deep fascination with the brutality of battle. For
these brazen individuals, the promise of steady combat is what drives
the eager sale of their own services to the highest bidder. Some even
hail from families who have followed the mercenary tradition for
generations, albeit within the shadows of society.

### Entrepreneurs

Civire are not usually known for business acumen, but when they choose
to engage in business affairs they conduct themselves with the same
aggression and confidence as they would on the battlefield. To them,
business is a battle of wills, to be pursued with focused vigilance and
ruthlessness.

See Also
--------
-   [The Caldari State](7unGNsrMFwIWXMMbrM2jfy)
-   [Caldari Bloodlines](66DZ1ki1bXUJvHXqg3Bebt)
