# Arrach Sarum
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/arrach-sarum

**Arrach Sarum** is the current Heir-elect of the
[Sarum Family](4EZ4a3Mw8QXHmisAA4Ff6L). A career
military officer and strict authoritarian, Arrach commands great respect
throughout the Empire's armed forces, and promises to return House Sarum
to order.

Life
----

Arrach was born Abu-Arrach xer Sarum in 5 BYC (124 years ago), son of
Alia xer Sarum, former Duchess of [Mekhios](3VOfvlm6gGI0LRutDj5MhI) and head
of one of the largest branches of the Sarum Family. Although
prestigious, Alia had lost favour within the family by her belligerent
opposition to the then Royal Heir Marikh Sarum, patriarch of the Sarum
branch from which [Jamyl](6jGpYH3ai8pLLJboHVuA3L) descended. With the Duchy
of Mekhios stripped from the xer Sarum branch, and unwilling to endure
indignity of being treated like a pariah by the family, Arrach
voluntarily left his mother's side at age 14 and joined a Sarum Family
military academy.

Due to his unflinching loyalty and diligence, Arrach spend the
subsequent decades rapidly climbing the ranks of the armed forces in
both the Sarum Family and the Empire. After rising to the rank of
Commodore in the [Amarr Navy](3PKvXZS0iHKIgAmO9np74g), Arrach took up
command of the Sarum 2nd Fleet. He remained a Sarum Admiral for 45 years
before retiring at the age of 84. Having earned the respect of Marikh
Sarum for his exemplary service, Arrach was granted the Duchy of Mekhios
as a member of the paramount branch of the Sarum Family with his
mother's history forgotten.

Finding little challenge or entertainment in court politics or the
management of his estate, Arrach soon started seeking new careers.
Eventually gaining the attention of Chancellor Sakekoo, he was made
Tribune of Logistics for the Ministry of War, overseeing the planning
and execution of the Amarr Army and Navy's logistics chains. He remained
at the Ministry of War until YC 105, resigning shortly after Emperor
[Heideran VII's](4Olxc4nxWd7y1mjFPhvHnV) decree forbidding the royal
houses from maintaining fully-militarized space fleets.

Soon thereafter, Jamyl Sarum appointed Arrach to the newly-created post
of "Constable-General of the Police and Border Forces". This political
position made Arrach responsible for the nominal restructuring of the
Sarum Fleet to comply with the imperial decree, although his actual
function was to ensure the continued might of the Sarum military even if
it would be organized under a different name and table of organization.

After the coronation of [Doriam II](1aaBMbCysLA8uJjQQczFwT) and the
apparent death of Jamyl Sarum, Arrach was a popular alternative to the
young Merimeth for the position of Heir. Although Arrach himself had
little interest in pursuing the position, he did frequently voice his
displeasure with the house going without an appointed leader. His
willingness to criticize the politics of the house as well as his
esteemed military career made him a focal figure for those Holders under
the Sarum banner who shared his concerns.

Sword of the Blood and Heir Presumptive
---------------------------------------

Soon after officially being made Heir by Empress Jamyl, Merimeth Sarum
assembled an entirely new cabinet of advisors. Merimeth made a point of
giving each of his advisors an ancient and traditional title from Sarum
history, and most notably the title of "Kilizh e Sani", meaning "Sword
of the Blood", was granted to Arrach. In most cases the title has been
little but an honorific to indicate a liege's high esteem, but in times
when the Sarum lords have gone without direct descendants the title of
"Sword of the Blood" has almost always been bestowed on their chosen
successor. Though Merimeth himself had not carried the title, he did
come to style himself with it during his limbo in Jamyl's absence. The
meaning of Arrach acquiring this title was not lost on anyone and he was
immediately considered the heir presumptive of House Sarum.

As well as enjoying the prestige of his honorary title, Arrach has spent
the past seven years as the Marshal of House Sarum, overseeing not only
all of the family's troops and fleets but also the large contingents of
Sarum forces that were attached to the Imperial Guard during the reign
of Empress Jamyl I.

Royal Heir-Elect
----------------

The Sarum Family's paramount branch has confirmed Arrach Sarum as Royal
Heir-elect in response to the call of Court Chamberlain Pomik Haromi for
all Royal Houses to declare successors to the Royal Heirs contending in
the Imperial Succession for YC118.

For the Sarum Family, Arrach represents a return to an older form of the
house. He is an embodiment of tradition, military prestige, and
meritorious service. Few Holders would ever dream of opposing his rule.
