# Parien
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/parien

**Parien** was a crew member who served onboard the Arc of Defiance, a battleship captained by [Silat Enfour](5ZYKAh507w4ka42E4PKk7k).

Crisis of conscience
--------------------

### Attack on Guristas

Parien was serving in the ship's reloading bay at the time the Arc
attacked a [Guristas](55L861YhB1ZfaAST6ZbhdO) mining colony. Once the
pirate defenders were destroyed, the [capsuleer](15umOALoFBZxVS2oaggvJQ)
turned the weapons on the mining facility, which was full of civilians.

Following this attack, Parien became disgusted with his role in the
slaughter and the lackadaisical attitude his fellow crew took. He also
grew to hate Enfour, whom he had never seen, for his cold actions. He
eventually contacted the Guristas to send them an apology for what he
had participated in, and resolved to seek revenge on all those
responsible.

### Sabotage

When the Arc went to attack Guristas who were protecting some ruins,
Parien sabotaged the weapons reloading by damaging shells so the guns
jammed, sent the ship's drones off to attack random ships and be
destroyed, and damaged the escape pods in the core of the ship, where
the combat operations were performed, so that the majority of them
disintegrated when the ship was destroyed.

Parien had expected to die as well, but his own escape pod survived. He
was seriously injured, but Enfour, suspecting sabotage, kept him alive
in a secure location while he traced the accounts of all the surviving
crew.

### Aftermath and death

Once Enfour had discovered Parien's link to the Guristas, he used a
machine that could inject pain-inducing chemicals and tortured the truth
out of Parien. Parien attempted to lie and claim the whole thing had
been a drug-related accident, but Enfour revealed he ran frequent and
secret drug testing on his ship, and thus knew Parien was lying.

At last, Parien admitted to the truth, then expressed his disgust at the
captain and wished he was strong and brave enough to kill him. Rather
than kill him, Enfour contacted one of the surviving crew heads,
implying that the survivors would gather to take their revenge on Parien
themselves.

See Also
--------
- [All These Lives are Fit to Ruin](7CoNFiZlgKK70zQ0m1uhiv)
