# Tyunaul Seituoda
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/tyunaul-seituoda

Tyunaul Seituoda was a corporate raider and financier in the period
just prior to the [Gallente-Caldari War](1ehjby0lOpdwMJf9CprPtV). Born into the wealthy and
politically connected Seituoda family in AD 23107, he built one of the
largest fortunes in the [Federation](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK) by buying
small companies through hostile takeovers, stripping them of any parts
he found to be dead weight, and reassembling them into larger, more
efficient corporations under his ownership.

Early Years
-----------

Though the Seituoda family was not quite among the megacorporate elite, it was still
a powerful one on [Caldari Prime](1yEhptNaSoG42YRSay711i); Tyunaul's
father was a Federation [Senator](x8brOPuT22Bcly2Sikkt5) from 23110 AD until
his death in 23132 AD, his uncle the CEO of the [State and Region Bank](7HMAW6okbcZffg3IsiPAg2) for nearly twenty years, and a
number of his aunts and uncles held various other executive positions in
a number of megacorporations and the Caldari Prime planetary government.
He attended the [University of Caille](3yrFWFSjOxnFu1GTFhudTM),
graduating with a degree in finance, and went to work for the State and
Region Bank in 23127 AD. There, he gained a reputation as a financial
wunderkind, and in 23138 AD, he struck out on his own.

Convinced that his family deserved to be of even higher status than it
already was, Tyunaul Seituoda set out to seize control of a controlling
stake in one of the dozen or so megacorporations that exerted the true
control over Caldari Prime. Using expertise honed at the State and
Region Bank, where he had shepherded many acquisitions and mergers over
the years, he launched a series of hostile takeovers of smaller
companies to build his wealth and broaden his experience both in
management as well as takeover strategies. By the time he was 40 years
old, Seituoda had become one of the wealthiest men on Caldari Prime, but
his efforts to gain a significant share of one of the megacorporations
had made little headway. The megacorporations guarded their stock
jealously, and he found himself dealing with their efforts to counter
him more and more often. Though his political connections made it
difficult for the megacorporations to completely suppress him, their
constantly-growing power made even his attempts at Federation government
involvement often fall short. Ironically, the fact that his attempts to
manipulate the Federation government into assisting him didn't work
eventually made him grow increasingly dissatisfied with Gallente Prime,
and by 23146 AD, Seituoda was a significant backer of a number of
Caldari independence groups.

On a more personal note, Tyunaul Seituoda married Kymmi Parovuja in
23144 AD; the daughter of shipping magnate Kuruta Parovuja, the two met
at a business conference on [Gallente Prime](41JbD6M3Keq024T44ULv7a)
the previous year. While all indications are that the two had quite a
happy marriage, the initial reason for the relationship was business for
Seituoda; the marriage secured him a controlling share in Parovuja's
interests, which would later go on to become one of the foundations of
the [Wiyrkomi](66psXtrftjRzA7MyKHtb7K) empire. Kymmi Parovuja
largely stayed out of the business world, instead becoming known for her
philanthropy, especially for wounded veterans, and leaving the rest to
her husband.

Wiyrkomi Buyout
---------------

In 23149 AD, Seituoda was approached by Taaiko Wiyrkomi, CEO of Wiyrkomi
Industrial Machinery, a medium sized manufacturing conglomerate in the
[Luminaire](1tM3Nx7GG1CbWtq6PcKMwj) system, which was fighting off a
takeover attempt by the Pairuhaara megacorporation. Wiyrkomi was looking
for a white knight to bail his struggling firm out of the situation, and
did not trust the other megacorporations, assuming he would quickly find
himself simply serving a different master. Seituoda, having butted heads
with Pairuhaara in the past, was more than willing to step in, and
became a major stockholder in Wiyrkomi almost overnight. He also
convinced the State and Region Bank to also throw its weight behind
Wiyrkomi, shutting Pairuhaara out of the market.

While Wiyrkomi had fended off one takeover attempt, he soon found that
Seituoda had plans of his own for the company, helped by the fact that
he now controlled almost 15% of the company's stock himself and exerted
a great deal of control over the 8% that the State and Region Bank had
acquired. Though he seemed content to let Wiyrkomi keep his CEO
position, Seituoda held the chairman of the board position tightly, and
moved the company towards an aggressive acquisition strategy, coinciding
nicely with the economic warfare the megacorporations were unleashing on
the Federation at the time. At first, Seituoda faced serious resistance
on the board of directors to his moves, as Wiyrkomi had long held to a
more conservative acquisition strategy. However, as his successes grew
and shareholder profits rose, fewer and fewer shareholders doubted his
acumen; even Taaiko Wiyrkomi, who resented the amount of influence
Seituoda commanded over "his" company, grudgingly accepted the fact that
the new direction seemed to be working well.

By 23153 AD, the newly rebranded Wiyrkomi Corporation was a growing
second-tier corporation, and the company was consolidating its gains
with a series of management buyouts. Seituoda had also had the
corporation begin to buy out his personal holdings, using the stock and
cash he acquired from the purchases to consolidate his position on the
Wiyrkomi board. By the height of Gallente-Caldari tensions in the fall
of 23154, Taaiko Wiyrkomi was largely a figurehead, with Seituoda and
his family running the company behind the scenes.

Morning of Reasoning
--------------------

The Morning of Reasoning was a watershed event not just for the Caldari
people, but for the Seituoda family, especially Tyunaul Seituoda. When
the six secessionist megacorporations bested the other megacorporate
CEOs in the [Tea Maker Ceremony](4hZCOgeIQ4zuF3Gx8eFeCY), and
began to parcel out the fallen corporations' assets amongst themselves,
Seituoda took advantage of the turmoil. Already forewarned thanks to
contacts in independence groups closely affiliated with the secessionist
megacorporations, Wiyrkomi was one of the few second-tier corporations
that managed to plunder the unionist megacorporations' holdings before
the secessionists had devoured them whole. Then, as the State and Region
Bank stumbled under the ensuing financial turmoil, Wiyrkomi's own
financial assets were put to use, bailing it out and taking a
controlling stake in the bank.

When the war broke out, Seituoda and Wiyrkomi were placed in an awkward
position. While much of Wiyrkomi's assets were not actually on Caldari
Prime, saving them from the ravages of the Gallente bombardment, they
did have a great deal of assets in outer regions of the Federation,
including a major operation in the Vlillirier system. As a result,
Seituoda did not initially join the Caldari rebellion, despite his
previous associations with independence groups. Instead, he orchestrated
a series of spin-offs, selling off Wiyrkomi assets in the Federation to
form ostensibly Gallente-owned subsidiaries, though Wiyrkomi retained
its control through a complex web of holding corporations and personal
loyalties. He also began to use the company's Federation assets to build
up its holdings in the State, most of which were acquisitions made
during the Morning of Reasoning. Meanwhile, the State and Region Bank
became the organ through which his family grew closer to the [Chief Executive Panel](5OC2T1uqCSy4NUPhhpq9Xr), securing his flank.
Seituoda and Wiyrkomi did not officially defect to the State cause until
23161 AD, when they fled Federation space just ahead of a flurry of [FIO](4Q7sdriIYVeeQANNNXF0nH) arrest warrants.

Post-War
--------

Seituoda and the rest of his family established themselves in the
Dantumi system, where Wiyrkomi made its new headquarters, and set to
work expanding its corporate empire. With no holdings in the central
region of the Forge, the other megacorporations were content to let
Wiyrkomi develop more in the Citadel and Lonetrek unimpeded. Thanks to
generous funding from the State and Region Bank, Wiyrkomi quickly grew
to rival the megacorporations under Seituoda, and its intelligence
network within the Federation became a vital part of the Caldari war
effort. Seituoda also funneled cash to other groups agitating
independence from the Federation, including many Intaki.

In 23192 AD, Wiyrkomi's importance to the financial and military
backbone of the Caldari State made it impossible for the Chief Executive
Panel to continue to shut the company out of a direct role in
leadership. While Seituoda had been pushing for his company's admission
to the CEP since the mid 23170s and had generally found a welcome
reception from [Kaalakiota Corporation](xW4SSaPMqTaHQ1RLt0IcK) and [Lai Dai Corporation](5k5GiWRlFceyTjLSz71XT), the other megacorporations had
remained skeptical. After a particularly devastating campaign by the
Federation in the Citadel, however, Sukuuvestaa was forced to come to
the State and Region Bank for help; Seituoda's price was a seat on the
CEP.

With Seituoda's goal of making his family one of the megacorporate elite
successful, he seemed to lose some of his drive, and in 23195 AD, he
handed over control of the Wiyrkomi board to his son Sekadama. He
retired to his estate on Dantumi, acting as an advisor to the company
and spending most of his time working with his wife's philanthropic
organizations. Upon his death in 23219 AD, Tyunaul Seituoda was hailed
as one of the founding fathers of the Caldari State, one of the few who
had not been directly involved with the Morning of Reasoning. His shares
of Wiyrkomi were placed in a family trust, which to this day maintains a
strong hold on the board of the megacorporation, though they tend to
leave the day-to-day operations of the corporation in the hands of
others.

See Also
--------
- [Wiyrkomi Corporation](66psXtrftjRzA7MyKHtb7K)
