# Seven Events of the Apocalypse
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/seven-events-of-the-apocalypse

The **Seven Events of the Apocalypse** is a book written approximately a
century ago by [Damella Macaper](2NzXc2xbxbPxeumOAJkgsZ). It
describes seven calamities that will befall the world. The book suffers
from a lack of detailed information including the location and date the
calamities will occur, forcing readers to rely on independent deduction
and speculation to determine same, thus damaging the credibility of
Macaper's predictions. The book was largely forgotten for decades,
although recent events with striking similarities to those described in
the book have brought attention back to it.

The first calamity is described as "the cosmic kiss of the comets". In a
remote [Caldari](7unGNsrMFwIWXMMbrM2jfy) system in YC100, two large comets
collided head on, though this did not adversely affect any of that
system's planets. This event was not initially linked to the prophecy
until after the second calamity took place.

The second calamity took place a few months after the first calamity
when the planet [Fricoure](6L9VLF7cRbUAmxCjAPWMrJ) in the [Gallente Federation](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK) was flooded by rains which lasted for
weeks. This flood was the first event to be linked to Macaper's prophecy
by an unnamed astrology student, and is the calamity which began to draw
attention back to the book.

The third calamity is described as a "roaring stone that silences the
world". In YC101 an asteroid entered the atmosphere of the planet
[Rumida](Du1pMfThmnTp6ikEvdyb1) in the [Amarr Empire](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo),
impacting in the ocean. In addition to damaged infrastructure and lost
lives, thousands of people were left deaf due to the intense sound waves
generated by the asteroid as it traveled through the atmosphere. This
event resulted in Damella Macaper's name becoming renowned throughout
[New Eden](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk).

The fourth calamity is described as "the appetite of nothing expands
over the world". This event has yet to take place.

The fifth calamity is described as "the little brother makes the final
sorrowful steps home; he is not welcome". This event has yet to take
place.

The sixth calamity is described as "what was many now becomes one when
one becomes four". This event has yet to take place.

The seventh calamity is described as the "return of the dark light from
the heart of the mother." This event has yet to take place.

See Also
--------
-   [Chronicle: The Prophecy of Macaper](5vAIr5h9o6FAER1n3Rhief)
