# Earth
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/earth

Earth is the unofficial name given to the theoretical birthplace of
humankind-be it a single planet, single solar system, constellation or
any other location, either in the [New Eden cluster](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk) or elsewhere in the cosmos. It
is supposed by some to be located on the other side of the [EVE Gate](2z1KQXUVtPP1WmlwcJaX4o). The stories of Earth among disparate people
in New Eden is the main inspiration for the common origin theory.

Common Origin Theory
--------------------

Common origin theory posits all life in New Eden has a single, external
point of origin. The idea of a common birthplace was first put forth by
members of the [Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) clergy during the
[Reclaiming](70QLNGRwCwHUgmcjTmuhsA). It enjoyed great acceptance until
the beginning of the Moral Reforms, when the theory fell out of favor.
[Gallente](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK) scholars in the field of Amarr studies
rediscovered the theory, and it is they who are responsible for its
renewed popularity. Removing the religious overtones and conclusions of
the initial theorists, they crafted the common origin theory as it is
known today. While it is still heavily debated, no one can argue the
enormous impact this theory has had in various fields of study,
including spawning one of its own called Earthology.

### Earthology

Earthology is an attempt to define as much as possible about the common
origin theory. Despite requiring vast knowledge in a wide array of
subjects, bringing together portions of almost all fields of historical
study, including mythology, linguistics, archaeology, and genetics,
Earthologists seem to get little respect from the rest of the scientific
community. The stated purpose of the field is to prove a pre-existing
hypothesis, which doesn't sit well with scientists who regard the field
with some skepticism.

### Mythology

On their own, the myths of each of the races in New Eden didn't hold
much weight with scholars. In recent years however, the accelerating
flow of information between the empires has reinvigorated the field of
comparative mythology, and some startling discoveries have been made.

#### Origin Myths

Almost every race in New Eden can claim somewhere in their history a
tale of arrival; of being from somewhere else. Many of these stories
came to be replaced with other creation myths in various cultures, but
the underlying trend of different people on different continents sharing
these stories had been noticed and commented on by scholars in each
culture for some time. With the increasing ability to compare myths from
almost all settled planets in New Eden, the continuation of this trend
across planets has been latched onto by Earthologists. While some of the
similarities between these myths are quite striking, the scientific
community holds there are many reasons why myths may be similar across
cultures, not the least of which is the function of myths themselves.

#### Cryptozoology

Cyrptozoologists have long claimed that cryptids, or mythological
creatures, were real animals from the past. There was a resurgence of
interest in this field with the introduction of the common origin
theory. Earthologists began comparing the descriptions of the mythic
animals of all cultures in the New Eden cluster. Currently, the list of
cryptids described in myths of all four empires stands at fifty-six,
while those described in at least two empires number well over a
hundred. While this seems to hint heavily at the existence of a shared
ancestry, others point out that, with thousands of mythological
creatures described in various cultures, similarities are inevitable and
prove nothing.

### Etymology

The field of etymology suffered a huge blow when scholars of all empires
began communicating more openly with each other. While the main
languages spoken in New Eden today vary greatly from each other, it was
put forward by Earthologists that many of the languages spoken in the
past may have shared some similarities across planetary boundaries. Many
pioneers of the field had their findings called into question when
certain words given a uniquely local point of origin turned out to be
shared with long dead languages on other planets. Scholars of
comparative linguistics enjoyed new prominence, and potential cognates,
words believed to have evolved from the same source, were being
discovered almost daily, particularly among dead languages. Attempts to
recreate a common root language were soon frustrated by this rate of
discovery. Phono-semantic matching alone produced thousands of potential
cognates, though many of these are likely to turn out to be false
cognates, or coincidences.

The sheer number of potential cognates has allowed Earthologists to
begin defining the broad outline of seven different ancient
proto-languages. Common origin theorists claim these possible shared
root languages as proof of a shared birthplace, though the work has yet
to be subjected to independent peer review, nor has it been published.
It is the belief of the main scientific community that just like myths,
language evolves in a convergent manner. Additionally, with the somewhat
limited number of sounds a human being can make, it is inevitable that
there would be similar-sounding words in different languages, and that
some of these would have similar meanings, especially when taking into
account the large number of languages spoken in New Eden.

### Archaeology

Interstellar archaeologists noticed a curious pattern when they began
investigating and cataloging the remnants of ancient jump gates.
Spreading out in a web with the system of New Eden at its center, all
the jump gates appeared to have been constructed within the same
hundred-year period. Despite this relatively short timespan,
differences in construction led scholars to believe they were
constructed by different peoples.

Whether one or all of these peoples are related to the civilizations of
New Eden cluster is still hotly debated, but with the lack of any record
of any civilization predating the EVE Gate, archaeologists firmly point
to the New Eden system as the place where all roads lead. As a result,
the sole planet in the system has been subjected to much scrutiny. To
date, nothing has ever been found on the barren, moonless planet save
some simple micro-organisms. Based on this, combined with the fact that
the EVE Gate appears to be the oldest structure in New Eden,
Earthologists claim our origins are on the other side. The main
scientific community accepts only that the first technologically
advanced civilization to settle New Eden may have originated in that
system, if in fact the EVE Gate is the oldest structure in the cluster,
and that there is no evidence to suggest they were the ancestors of any
modern peoples.

### Genetics

According to Earthologists, the strongest evidence of the existence of a
common planet of origin comes from the field of genetics. As with
linguistics, and mythology, it is comparative genomics that has seen the
most advances in recent years, and it is here the Earthologists have
seen their theories gain the most traction. The discovery that the DNA
structure of all human beings, regardless of planet of origin, is
extremely similar at a base level, set off a firestorm of debate. While
leading to vastly different interpretations amongst geneticists,
seemingly along political lines, many are coming to agree a shared point
of origin does seem likely. Others point out that some animal and
plant species also share a percentage of this DNA, and are of the
opinion this is simply a further example of dominantly held theory of
convergent evolution.

### The Jove Question

Earthologists seem obsessed with learning the secrets of the
[Jove](6xoRWydZHCG4nplVmqXV9G), as they are believed to be the oldest
civilization currently in the New Eden cluster. It is here beliefs
veer mostly into the realm of the 'conspiracy theory' with some even
claiming Jove history predates the EVE Gate opening. No proof has ever
been shown regarding any of suppositions regarding the Jove, and
Earthologists remain frustrated at their lack of access to that race's
culture.

### Counterpoint

Despite the growing popularity of the common origin theory among such
renowned individuals as [Alain Topher](37dwFn7zYoVjH6fUWLpVe2), it is
still considered to be an undetermined theory. The greatest challenge is
presented by two competing theories which rely on the same evidence.
Both the syncretism theory and the mold theory draw vastly different
conclusions, and for this reason, brief summaries of these fields as
they relate to Earthology are presented below.

Syncretism Theory
-----------------

Rather than seeing the perceived similarities in myths, languages, and
genetics among the peoples of New Eden as proof of a common origin,
syncretism theorists point to the ancient races. Space-faring races
existing prior to modern civilizations proves the possibility of
inter-mixing between planets at some point in New Eden's history, and
every similarity pointed to as evidence for common origin, the
syncretism theorists claim as well.

### Mythology

Syncretic theory acknowledges the scientific community's commonly held
view that more studies on the nature and purpose of myths are required
before any definitive conclusions can be made. Even so, they believe the
supposed similarities found by Earthologists prove only there was
communication between our ancient ancestors, either directly or through
intermediaries, discrediting the idea that similarities are proof of
common origin.

### Etymology

Syncretic theorists are among the rare scholars who give credence to the
work of Earthology linguists. They often quote the seven proto-language
fragments as further proof of distant connections between our ancestors,
again, either directly from, or through the intermediary of, one of the
ancient races. Furthermore, they point to the proto-languages as proof
of influence in many other languages across planetary boundaries, rather
than a myriad developing from a single source. Most of the scientific
community agrees this is a much more plausible theory if in fact the
work on the seven proto-languages is ever completed and is determined to
be accurate.

### Genetics

While many dispute genetic similarities indicate a common ancestor,
syncretism theorists do accept parts of the notion. They believe there
may be many species today that did not originate on the planets they are
currently found on. The current confusion geneticists experience in
attempting to explain why humans seem to share so little DNA with the
majority of the flora and fauna in New Eden, yet do share some with some
species, is claimed as further proof of the 'mixing-bowl' ideology of
syncretic theory. Syncretics subscribe to the commonly accepted
convergent evolution theory, and claim there is nothing in the field of
genetics to suggest a common origin.

### The EVE Gate Question

Backed by mainstream archaeology, Earthologists point to the EVE Gate as
the oldest structure in New Eden and are frustrated on an almost daily
basis by its closure. The difficulty of studying the gate, and of course
the fact it no longer functions as it once did, means every avenue of
investigation leading to it is effectively a dead end. Syncretism
theorists argue that, given the limitations of modern dating methods,
having all been built in a 50-100 year period 15,000 years ago, there is
no way to reliably determine which of the gate structures are the
oldest. That archaeologists can't agree whether it was a fifty-year
period or a one-hundred-year period taints their conclusion that EVE is
the oldest of the gates. Syncretics further argue it is highly possible
the EVE Gate was used to leave New Eden by whatever civilization, or
civilizations, constructed the gates, and that they simply closed the
door behind them.

Mold Theory
-----------

Mold theory, also referred to as bootstrap theory or convergent
evolution, is one of the most accepted theories of origin and evolution
in the scientific community today. This school of genetic thought holds
that, for life to be successful, it must conform to a specific model.
Mold theory states that human beings share such genetic similarities not
due to evolving from the same place, but from evolving to the same
place. They believe there are various successful models life can evolve
toward and reject the theory that either similarities or differences on
a genetic level is any indication of origin, common or otherwise. While
mainly a genetic theory, it also holds that any similarities in myths or
language are also evidence that certain models just work, be they
genetic or social, and so they are repeated. Like syncretism theorists,
mold theorists dismiss the possibility of a common origin planet,
however, they have also claimed that if there is life on the other side
of the EVE Gate, like successful species found anywhere else, they too
will have all conformed to the same mold, and will have the same various
genetic models found on planets in the New Eden cluster.

See Also
--------
-   [EVE Gate](2z1KQXUVtPP1WmlwcJaX4o)
