# Apostle's Clerics
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/apostles-clerics

The **Apostle's Clerics** are the high priests of the
[Amarr's](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) greatest cathedrals. They are caretakers of
the cathedral's artifacts, provide Mass, and never leave the church
grounds. They have no real political power, though their respected
position gives them some limited influence.

History
-------

### Early Years

The Apostle's Clerics have existed since shortly after the founding of
the Amarr Empire. While monks and other caretakers have always been a
part of the Amarr religion, it was only after the consolidation of the
Amarr under one banner that they were formalized and institutionalized.
The early Apostle's Clerics were selected from the priests who had
assisted [Amash-Akura](4tm7IOIn0xaGeNFQcRl0Lc) in his rise to power and
were loyal to the newly formed [Council of Apostles](nTZLcvZprqLLUiGIaVQu7), from which they drew their
name.

These early clerics were tasked with organizing and recording holy
artifacts and providing sermons that would bolster the power of the new
[Emperor](3Akx6UWUOJM90aQeaPgDtJ). In these early days, the Apostle's
Clerics were not restricted to their church grounds, but had free reign
to travel much as any other priest. They were, instead, simply the upper
echelon of the priesthood, those who had dedicated their lives and
proven their piety.

Their position as supporters of the Council of Apostles gave them great
sway. Many gradually became members of the Council of Apostles itself,
replacing the deceased or disgraced. However, this also put them in a
precarious position when opposition to the Council began to form.

### Downfall

The first threat came from [Zaragram II](1DsGoYgw9GBQN8lqX77VlE), the
Mad Emperor, who ordered many high-ranking Apostle's Clerics imprisoned
or executed. Only those who swore their loyalty to him and espoused his
divinity were spared punishment. Though Zaragram II was eventually slain
by [St. Tetrimon](3oR2akT6mzavwkTXD52j5X), and those who had been
imprisoned were freed, the Mad Emperor's reign had shaken the foundation
on which the Apostle's Clerics stood.

When the [Moral Reforms](48nuiRGJ4i8BwACDI9a58u) came several
centuries later, the Apostle's Clerics had only partly regained their
standing. The Emperor realized that the Apostle's Clerics were loyal to
the Council of Apostles above all else, but that they could also be used
to his advantage. Not wishing to repeat the mistakes of Zaragram II, the
Emperor instead worked to marginalize their influence rather than
eliminate it completely.

He did so by restricting their ability to travel, forcing any Apostle's
Cleric to remain within the church to which he was duty-bound. This
prevented the Apostle's Clerics from coordinating dissent and kept them
from seriously resisting the changes of the Moral Reforms.

Function
--------

Today, the Apostle's Clerics serve two very important functions. They
provide the Mass and act as caretaker's of their church's artifacts.

Providing Mass typically involves assisting the official directing the
sermon. Because a typical cathedral to which the Apostle's Clerics are
assigned is massive and serves hundreds of thousands of worshipers, this
is an extensive task. The clerics prepare any pieces of
[Scripture](tWsGYkfVxuvQDdt57cCUp) the official might need to consult,
provide parishioners with hymnals and other directions, direct
supplicants into a blessing queue, and provide other rote duties. In
this way, they interact with commoners much more directly than other
members of the clergy.

Upkeep of the cathedral's artifacts is a much more difficult job, as
many of the Empire's artifacts date back tens of thousands of years.
These artifacts can be everything from rather sturdy metal objects to
old bones to ancient scrolls and pieces of parchment. The artifacts
require polishing, cleaning, and age treatment to keep them available
for viewing by the public and usage in sermons.

The Clerics also provide some other menial functions at the cathedrals,
such as custodial and administrative duties.

Selection
---------

Being named an Apostle's Cleric is a high honor, but also one that not
many pursue. Because being made a cleric requires the monk to remain
sequestered in the cathedral grounds for the rest of his life, it is not
an appointment that many wish to undertake. For those reasons, it is
only the most pious and dedicated of the priesthood who aspire to the
position.

An applicant to the Apostle's Clerics must be nominated by either
another Apostle's Cleric or a high-ranking member of the clergy. This
nomination must be seconded by at least one other, though an applicant
can receive multiple affirmations, which is taken favorably into account
on his review. The application is then reviewed by the Theology Council,
which usually involves an interview with the applicant and sometimes
with those who recommended him.

If the applicant is accepted, he is then assigned to a cathedral. The
applicant can express a preference for his assignment, but this is
usually ignored in favor of assigning him to the cathedral that most
requires his services. If an applicant is rejected, he is allowed to
reapply once; rejection a second time is permanent.

See Also
--------
-   [Amarr Empire](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo)
