# Dakos Khanid
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/dakos-khanid

Dakos Khanid (born 22984 AD, died 23043 AD) was the younger brother
of King [Khanid II](5HlA8KgFOuLy4jTf3t54xf) and
a former Admiral of the [Amarr Navy](3PKvXZS0iHKIgAmO9np74g), who
rebelled against Khanid II following Khanid's rebellion against the
[Amarr Empire](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo). Dakos was leading a successful
insurgency before he was assassinated by his adopted son, Luxian Khanid.

Early Life
----------

Dakos was born in 22984 AD, the second son of the Khanid
Family [Heir](54zoGW31RF0k0QF9KkOBjh). His
older brother, Garkeh, was the chosen successor to his father and was
being groomed to one day become the [Emperor](3Akx6UWUOJM90aQeaPgDtJ),
leaving Dakos to attempt to thrive in his shadow. Despite this, Dakos
looked up to his elder brother, viewing him as a role model and often
treating him as a surrogate father, as his real father was too often
occupied with his concerns as the Heir.

By the time Dakos was a young man, Garkeh had already attained a high
posting with the Amarr Navy. Dakos desired to follow in his brother's
footsteps and enrolled with the [Imperial Academy](3uhC0aXZHWtZbhe8TcXWv9), where he quickly earned a
reputation for an enthusiastic but temperamental cadet. He was prone to
violent outbursts and frequently clashed with those who harshly
criticized him. However, thanks to his royal birth, he was afforded
heavy leniency. Nevertheless, his time at the academy drilled a strong
loyalty to the Empire into Dakos and he graduated at the top of his
class.

Naval Career
------------

Dakos was given a posting on board a patrol ship at the fringes of Amarr
space. He served as the head of the gunnery team, where he quickly
gained a reputation as a harsh, exacting commander. He often enforced
discipline through violence, which earned the enmity of those beneath
him. Word of his faults was suppressed by his superiors, who wished to
gain favor with his father and brother, who by this time had attained
the rank of Navy Admiral.

Because his service reviews spoke glowingly of him, Dakos was quickly
promoted through the ranks. Within a decade, he was a captain of his own
battleship, serving under the command of his elder
brother. As a captain, Dakos's fierce nature made life on board his
command miserable, but served him well in encounters with
[Minmatar](1rpu7pfwTPVznAczjw2pOp) rebels and [Blood Raider](1HSqsKgCyL5sX6LpBVfElt) heretics. His ship regularly led the
charge against enemies of the Empire, coming back heavily damaged but
with numerous kills to its credit.

When his father died in 23033 AD, Garkeh was made the new Khanid Heir,
as expected. Garkeh was subsequently made the Grand Admiral of the
Imperial Navy. One of his first acts was promoting Dakos to Admiral of
the 3rd Fleet, a fleet with much history among the Khanid Family.

Dakos aggressively used his fleet to track down and eliminate heretics,
rebels, and traitors. He brutally put down several slave revolts,
slaughtering the rebellious slaves and harshly punishing their
[Holders](dO9vxs4a40LrzJyoq2L8v) for allowing conditions to deteriorate.

Brush with Death
----------------

In 23037 AD, Dakos lead a patrol of the Bleak
Lands in an effort to root out a Blood
Raiders sect that had become entrenched in the area. The patrol had not
seen any sight of the enemy, when suddenly they detected a cynosural
field being deployed. Dakos ordered one of his wings to investigate,
which reported three Blood Raiders carrier with a light escort. He then
ordered half his fleet to engage the carrier.

This proved to be a mistake. Soon after the engagement was joined, the
Blood Raiders deployed warp disruptors on the attackers. Moments later,
a large Blood Raiders fleet poured into the system and ambushed Dakos's
command ship and escorts. His ship's engines were disabled and the Blood
Raiders boarded, hoping to capture the Admiral and relative of the
Khanid Heir for their own nefarious reasons.

In the fighting, Dakos was heavily injured. However, a young gunnery
sergeant of Khanid birth named Luxian saved Dakos, carrying his admiral
to the [escape pods](sMOWNoUuSFrPtr7kjjM5r) while fighting off Blood
Raider boarders. Luxian was wounded several times as well, and at one
point had to discard his sidearm and fight with a jagged sharp of metal.

Dakos's fleet suffered heavy losses before managing to regroup and fight
off the invaders, but the Admiral had survived and vowed revenge. He
also heavily rewarded Luxian for his bravery. When he discovered the man
was a commoner who had lost both of his parents at a young age, he
decided to adopt him as his own son. Despite Luxian's lack of experience
or proper educations, he gave him a field promotion to Captain and gave
him command of his own cruiser.

Once Dakos had recovered sufficiently from his injuries a month later,
he made a second assault on the Blood Raiders in the Bleak Lands. This
time, the patrol was much more successful, and destroyed several Blood
Raider installations and routed a large fleet of heretics, shattering
the power base of the Blood Raiders in the Bleak Lands for several
decades.

Khanid Rebellion
--------------------

In 23041 AD, the Amarr Emperor died. Garkeh Khanid was considered the
favorite to win the throne, and named Dakos as his chosen Heir, but
[Heideran Kador](4Olxc4nxWd7y1mjFPhvHnV) claimed victory in the
[Succession Trials](1wt48mKlJG23uoZhpmxNzx) instead. Garkeh
famously declared "I will not be ordered by some whimpering fool to
destroy myself when my work is unfinished. You will not take anything
from me, not my kingdom, not my people and least of all my life."
Rather than commit the ritual suicide expected of him, Garkeh openly
rebelled against the Empire.

He stole one of the Empire's two [titans](XH5ZPvSBGGIStAEWqWHOl) and a large
portion of the Amarr Navy loyal to him, called on all Holders loyal to
him to retreat to the Khanid region, and
declared independence from the Empire. Garkeh styled himself "[King Khanid II](5HlA8KgFOuLy4jTf3t54xf)" and renamed his domains the Khanid
Kingdom.

Dakos was horrified by the actions of his brother. Though he had long
sought to emulate his brother, his service in the navy had drilled a
strong sense of Imperial loyalty to him. He wanted to oppose his
brother's rebellion, but was initially unable to act against him, as the
majority of the 3rd Fleet was loyal to his brother ahead of him. He took
an oath of loyalty to King Khanid, but acted behind the scenes to find
other dissenters.

This was initially difficult, as few trusted the brother of the new king
to be disloyal. Additionally, Dakos's fiery temper won him few friends.
In one vital incident, after failing to secure the loyalty of a powerful
Holder, Dakos struck out at Luxian and threw a ceremonial dagger at his
adopted son.

After a year, however, Dakos had managed to amass enough support to
launch a counter-rebellion.

Dakos's Rebellion
-----------------

Dakos declared himself the rightful Heir to the Khanid Family, as Garkeh
had lost the Succession Trials and had, by refusing to commit
[Shathol'Syn](7uCmeRGL3bgVWlEWQ9TZQb), shown himself to be a
heretic. Holders who were loyal to him and the Empire rose up in
rebellion against the young kingdom. Initially, the Empire did not
openly support them, as Heideran VII and the other Heirs were busy
consolidating their own power. However, they were provided with funds
from the Empire, which Dakos used to construct ships and hire
mercenaries to fight on his side.

Dakos made several initial gains in the war, taking a number of systems
on the border between the Empire and the Kingdom. After a month,
however, the advance stalled and the fighting bogged down between the
Nohshayess and Finaka constellations. Many battles consisted of Dakos
attempting to apply overwhelming force with superior Kingdom admirals
outmaneuvering and defeating him. During this lull, Dakos fell into
further violent tendencies, repeatedly browbeating his subordinates and
making excessive demands of his admirals.

His commanders quickly came to resent him and complained amongst
themselves about his harsh methods. At one point, Luxian overheard a
captain complaining, and had him whipped as punishment. When Dakos
learned of this, he was furious, as the captain was one of the few who
had continued to make significant victories. He ordered Luxian to lead a
dangerous assault on a heavily fortified Kingdom installation.

Luxian followed Dakos's orders without complaint, but his attack was
predictably halted. Luxian was captured by the Kingdom.

Assassination
-------------

Luxian was reportedly brought before King Khanid II himself. Khanid II
praised Luxian and showered him with gifts, then reminded him of
everything the Khanid Family had done for the Khanid people and how many
Khanid had come to the Kingdom in support of him. He then offered to
make Luxian a Holder should he kill Dakos. Luxian initially balked at
the thought of killing his adopted father, but Khanid II reminded him of
the many punishments Dakos had inflicted on him.

Swayed, Luxian agreed to the plot, and an escape was staged. Luxian
returned to Dakos's camp in a stolen shuttle. Dakos met his adopted son
with open arms, but when the two were in private, began to berate Luxian
for his failure. Seeing that Khanid II was right, Luxian leapt on his
adopted father, declaring, "The King has sent me to eliminate traitors!"
and strangled him.

Before his actions could be discovered, Luxian fled. He attempted to
return to the Khanid lines, but his shuttle was intercepted and
destroyed by Kingdom forces.

With Dakos dead, the rebellion fell apart. Many of the Holders who had
been loyal to him surrendered to Khanid, who accepted them back, though
many were lowered in rank and title. The few who desired holding out
realized they could not stand alone, so ceded their territories to the
Empire, which by this time had stabilized enough to project force
against the Kingdom.

Legacy
------

Dakos's failed rebellion cemented the strength of the Khanid Kingdom.
The civil war hardened the Khanid fleet's commanders, giving them the
tactical know-how to fight against the Empire when it tried to invade
several times over the following decades. Those Holders who remained in
power were intensely loyal to King Khanid II and he had to deal with
little in the way of dissent.

However, Khanid II realized that his own family was his greatest threat.
In response, he ordered that each branch of the family submit a hostage
to him. They lived in splendor in the royal palace on Khanid Prime, but
were disallowed from leaving the grounds. Over the centuries, these
hostages grew in number from only a single person to every woman and
child in the family.

See Also
--------
-   [Chronicle: Amarr Succession](3yGFKyRmrZRaTtTGOLkRzU)
-   [Chronicle: The Khanid Kingdom](3hU3mCSvJlVYWYiNXMhzaL)
