# Krusual
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/krusual

## Krusual

Pride is a common Minmatar trait, but the Krusual are wont to take it to extraordinary lengths. They rarely lose an opportunity to remind the other tribes that they alone managed to maintain strongholds in the mountainous Tronhadar region of Matar during the Amarr occupation. It is certainly remarkable that in all the long years of the occupation, the Amarr were unable to once and for all crush Krusual resistance. Their ability to hold onto a certain amount of independence during the occupation resulted in the Krusual retaining more of their preconquest culture than any other tribe, and their underground bases played an important role in sheltering some Vherokior mystics. The Krusual have less patience than any other tribe for former Minmatar slaves who continue to follow the Amarr religion.

Historically, the Krusual had always held themselves somewhat aloof and isolated from the other tribes, though to be sure they proved adept at keeping a strong influence over the politics of the old Minmatar Empire. This astute political sense rapidly manifested itself during the foundation of the republic, and their reputation for craftiness and scheming was reinforced anew. The Krusual attitude to life is much bound up with the necessity for the tribe to have sufficient power to retain its independence. They are perhaps the most clannish of all the tribes and are the least inclined to work with those from other clans and tribes. On the other hand, the Krusual are deeply concerned to see the Minmatar sphere of influence expand and joined the republic to this end.

The Krusual emphasis on a highly traditional tribal life has not impaired their innate talent for science, particularly in the fields of chemistry and biology. Krusual doctors are highly regarded, and traditional Krusual medicine is favored by many Minmatar. The contribution of the Krusual to the Minmatar military has tended toward ground fighters and intelligence operatives. In fact, the Krusual are generally rather disinclined to venture into space.

While the positive contribution of the Krusual tribe to the Minmatar people as a whole is undoubtedly high, it is also true that they are regarded with some suspicion by many other Matari. The high-profile and dominant status of Krusual gangs in the Minmatar underworld is partly responsible for this, with the theatricality of Krusual assassins regularly propelling them into the news. In truth, the Krusual themselves like to play up the aura of danger and mystery about themselves.
