# Spaceship Racing
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/spaceship-racing

**Spaceship racing** is an interstellar sporting event. It is expensive,
high-class and, in the minds of some, more than a little ridiculous, and
as such is notably participated in by [Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo)
[royalty](54zoGW31RF0k0QF9KkOBjh) and [nobles](dO9vxs4a40LrzJyoq2L8v).

Typical games
-------------

### Basic setup

The individual ships involved can be different models. The rules are
fairly simple. Each contestant has to destroy a series of beacons. Each
beacon, when destroyed, will drop a marker that need to be returned to
the station where the game started. Points of varying measure are scored
by reaching your beacon, returning your markers, destroying other
people's beacons, destroying or returning their markers, and performing
any maneuvers considered particularly elegant, flashy or dangerous.

### Risks

All beacons are fairly closely spaced, so there is always a risk that
your opponent might shoot down yours instead of going for his own. As a
result, ships need to be fitted not only with sufficient firepower to
destroy the beacons, but also electronic warfare capabilities to disrupt
the targeting capabilities of other players. Not only that, but since
each marker is fairly sizable, you'd need to fit cargo hold expanders on
your ship if you wanted to haul more than a couple back to station at
any one time; and expanders would slow your ship down noticeably. Ship
setups are kept strictly secret, shown only to professional inspectors.

Notorious events
----------------

The races do have a clear element of danger. The most recent incident
occurred when illegal prototype [rig](rigs) fitted to
a ship piloted by [Keral](7bRDME40tMpJRpS2MtG1NC) and
Selan malfunctioned, causing them to fatally crash.

See Also
--------
-   [Chronicle: Godflesh](3plaqb1gNf8mcrjJOW5urb)
