# Molok the Deceiver
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/molok-the-deceiver

Molok the Deceiver is a semi-mythological figure in the
[Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) [Scriptures](tWsGYkfVxuvQDdt57cCUp) who
attempted to usurp the throne of [Emperor](3Akx6UWUOJM90aQeaPgDtJ)
[Amash-Akura](4tm7IOIn0xaGeNFQcRl0Lc) around 16600 AD. He led a massive
rebellion and, at one point, controlled half the territory of the
Empire. He was eventually captured at the Battle of
[Edras](gEncrKUuU49lkOAgNgvkY) and sacrificed on the altar of God. After his
death, he was transformed into a sort of religious adversary in the
Amarr mythology, coming to represent sin and disbelief.

Very little historical evidence for Molok's actual reality exists. The
majority of documentation comes directly from the Scriptures or later
commentaries, leading many scholars to debate if he was real or a
creation of the church.

Rebellion
---------

Molok is first mentioned in the Scriptures as a member of the [Council of Apostles](nTZLcvZprqLLUiGIaVQu7) who had grown jealous of
the blessings given to Emperor Amash-Akura by the
[sefrim](2Zrqfwd6S0boZhGwbPzSnq). Molok believed that he deserved the eternal
youth of the [Ametat](3xzaFUZ92kHBMX7jIybldm) and the great wisdom
of the [Avetat](3xzaFUZ92kHBMX7jIybldm). Because of his jealousy,
he turned to forbidden arts and rituals, and gained great powers.

Using his powers, he conjured floods and plagues, causing great distress
to the people. He used his great charisma to gather a following of
[Holders](dO9vxs4a40LrzJyoq2L8v) and told the people that the angelic
sefrim were responsible for allowing the disasters to happen. He claimed
the sefrim could have given eternal life to anyone, and spare them from
all suffering, but they jealously withheld from who they considered
lesser beings.

Eventually, Molok conquered half of Amarr Island, throwing the Empire in
chaos. Emperor Amash-Akura asked the sefrim to aid him and, when they
refused, he banished them from his city, causing the sefrim to return to
heaven. That night, Amash-Akura was visited by God, who informed him of
his folly and bade him reclaim his people. Though Amash-Akura lost the
blessings of the Ametat and Avetat, he began to lead his armies directly
against Molok.

The war lasted five years and ended with Molok being captured at the
Battle of Edras. Molok was brought in chains before the emperor, then
sacrificed on the altar of God.

Aftermath
---------

Despite his defeat and death, Molok's legacy endured in the Scriptures.
Amash-Akura died the day after Molok was executed, bringing an end to
the Empire's first emperor. His rebellion also spelled the end of the
Empire's first golden age, as the population was decimated and
infrastructure was left in ruins.

After his death, Molok became something of a vengeful spirit in Amarr
lore. He continually crops up in the Scriptures, attempting to deceive
the righteous and cast them into sin and heresy. In most instances, he
is not described as an actual presence, but rather a metaphorical
representation of temptation. Some theologians contend that the
references are not intended to be read as the actual manifestation of
Molok's soul, but rather being a simple metaphor for the process of
self-doubt that strikes many of the faithful.

Alternate Interpretations
-------------------------

While the Amarr church contends that Molok's existence and actions as
recorded in the Scriptures are historical fact, many foreign scholars
believe that the events are embellished at best or outright fabricated
at worst. Most sources of information regarding him come from the
Scriptures or later authors, leading some to doubt his existence
entirely. Of course, the Scriptures are replete with verifiable
historically accurate documents, making objections to them as a source
of information contentious.

The most common alternate theories concern Molok's existence and
motivations.

### Force of Nature

According to this theory, a number of somewhat related natural disasters
struck the Empire after many years of harmony. A massive flood destroyed
croplands, resulting in widespread famine and death, which then led to
the spread of a plague. The lack of a proper response from the church
and Amarr leadership caused high unrest, eventually resulting in several
riots. These riots were violently put down, causing further unrest in
turn, which subsequently led to a large-scale rebellion.

Once the rebellion was successfully put down, the church created the
figure of Molok to act as a scapegoat, blaming the disasters and trouble
on him. As the disasters ceased, they contended that Molok had been
defeated and peace would return to the Empire.

### Egalitarian Hero

This theory puts forth the contention that Molok actually existed, but
was actually a religious reformer. He was responsible for exposing
corruption and abuses within the Holder class and the church,
perpetrated against the peasantry. His crusade was opposed by the
Council of Apostles and he was branded a heretic, causing him to lead a
popular rebellion. As he gained followers and influence, the church
attempted to vilify him by blaming a series of natural disasters on him.
After he was captured, he was executed and further castigated in an
attempt to prevent his elation as a martyr.

### Opportunist

In this final theory, Molok was simply an usurper who wished to claim
the Imperial throne for himself. This Molok venerated the same
Scriptures as the rest of the populace, but craved power. When a series
of natural disasters struck the Empire and caused popular unrest, Molok
utilized the opportunity to foment rebellion. In defeating his
rebellion, the emperor and Council of Apostles committed several
cruelties. Afterward, he was vilified in an effort to deflect blame and
justify the actions of the Amarr leaders.

See Also
--------
-   [Amarr Emperor](3Akx6UWUOJM90aQeaPgDtJ)
-   [Amash-Akura](4tm7IOIn0xaGeNFQcRl0Lc)
-   [Chronicle: Ametat and Avetat](hbaFwyuyKjmTyePDbDEqN)
