# Bullets
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/bullets

**Bullets** are projectiles fired from a gun. Bullets do not contain
explosives, which differentiate them from shells, inflicting damage
solely through kinetic impact. Despite modern shield and armor
technology rendering them less effective than in eras past, bullets
continue to see major use in combat, especially in atmospheres that can
render energy and hybrid weapons less potent. Military forces across
[the cluster](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk) utilize bullets.

History
-------

Bullets have been developed independently by every race in New Eden
which achieved the technological know how to create guns, including the
core races of the four empires. Early bullets were simply balls of
metal, typically lead, that were packed into a barrel on top of an
accelerant which was then ignited (typically gunpowder, though other
explosives have been utilized to varying degrees). As manufacturing and
design techniques improved, bullets became much more complex.

The first major modifications to the standard design were pointed
bullets. Points improved penetrating power, as well as making bullets
more aerodynamic, improving range and accuracy. The second major change
was the addition of a jacket to the bullet, allowing for higher muzzle
velocities, increasing lethality. Further advances improved the design
and shape of the bullet to increase lethality and range even more.

The creation of electromagnetic shielding created the need for bullets
that didn't respond to deflection. For a time, ceramic bullets were the
solution, but they proved too brittle, and were too easily defeated by
armor. Eventually, nanoalloys provided an answer, as they could be
specifically designed to bypass shields while still possessing the
penetrating power to damage armor.

Current advances in bullet technology are typically responses to
advances in shield and armor technology designed to stop bullets. In
order to remain effective, bullets must remain one step ahead of
defenses against them.

Current Use
-----------

Bullets remain favored by ground forces for the majority of engagements,
particularly when collateral damage needs to be minimized. When compared
to energy weapons or hybrids, bullets are less widely destructive while
remaining highly lethal. This allows them to neutralize combatants while
leaving structures mostly undamaged.

Additionally, weapons traditionally considered more advanced suffer from
a number of disadvantages while used in an atmosphere. Energy weapons
suffer from the issue of atmospheric bloom, where they superheat the
atmosphere, causing a rapid decrease in range and power. They also can
be absorbed by particles in the air, such as smoke.

Hybrid weapons, meanwhile, are difficult to make aerodynamic. While less
problematic with artillery, in hand weapons where precise accuracy is
important this makes them less effective. Coilguns also do not scale
well, as the energy requirements of accelerating a shell to relativistic
speeds remain high even with the lesser mass of a hand-held weapon.

Blasters additionally must deal with the dispersion of their plasma
field. In an atmosphere, this field disperses even faster than in a
vacuum, making blasters only effective at extremely short ranges.

See Also
--------

-   [Item technology](1atx3NGYkl3oP5JiEa1ShQ)
-   [Chronicle: Black Eagles](6eVk3icIk4UHf5Uh799xDN)
