# Eifyr and Co.
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/eifyr-and-co

**Eifyr and Co.** was established by the renowned, yet enigmatic, biochemist Kolvil Eifyr shortly after the [Minmatar Republic](1rpu7pfwTPVznAczjw2pOp)’s founding and swiftly became a potent force in the biochemical and cyber-implant industries.

Backed by investment from the shrewd leaders of the [Krusual Tribe](7KI9OEieV9sdjksayCyoGk) and steered by Eifyr, the corporation remains a lean, relatively small, but highly efficient powerhouse. However, its emphasis on secrecy and rumored connections to the Minmatar underworld have fueled speculation as to how the company really makes its money. The most persistent rumors and occasional accusations have centered on allegations of illegal booster manufacturing and secret contracts with the [Serpentis Corporation](64u7D7YksvODwmCFL3llMs). Whatever the truth may be, none of the investigations mounted against Eifyr and Co. have ever uncovered concrete evidence of wrong-doing, and no prosecution has been attempted to date.

For much of its history, Eifyr and Co. pursued relatively mundane biochemical manufacturing and distribution on the open market, while its cyber-implant division developed and released popular ranges of gunnery and propulsion implants for the lucrative [capsuleer](15umOALoFBZxVS2oaggvJQ) markets. When the [Secure Commerce Commission](53xiV87Fsc331zU35qelSd) deregulated markets with regard to boosters, and the possibilities of synth boosters came to light, Eifyr and Co. were immediately ready to take advantage and began offering biochemical reactors and other equipment vital to booster manufacturing on the open market. The corporation also released new implants designed to enhance booster uptake and alleviate adverse reactions, leading to a resurgence in speculation regarding links to the underworld booster rings. Many observers asked how Eifyr was able to swiftly and effectively respond to the booster deregulation.

The widespread emergence of unstable wormholes and the technological possibilities opened by these phenomena is the most recent opportunity seized by Kolvil Eifyr's remarkable corporation. Eifyr and Co.'s expertise in chemical reactor technology was swiftly adapted to the newly emerging polymers derived from wormhole space gas clouds. Additionally, [Sleeper](/topic/sleepers) technology became a particular interest of the corporation. Today, Eifyr and Co. acquires Sleeper-related data in a variety of forms primarily from capsuleers who encounter the ancient civilization’s drone guardians in wormhole space. 
