# Insta-Hardening Foam Bombs
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/insta-hardening-foam-bombs

**Insta-hardening foam bombs** are a weapon used primarily for riot
control and the capture of people and animals. They contained
highly-pressurized foam that, when released, rapidly expands and engulfs
a target, then quickly hardens upon exposure to air. Though categorized
as a non-lethal weapon, improper use can be deadly, as the foam can clog
airways and cause suffocation.

History
-------

Insta-hardening foam is an old creation, having been developed
independently by the [empires](Empire-Factions) several
times. Early forms of the foam had limited applications; it lacked
tensile strength and did little to restrict movement. Often, the foam
was simply used to cheaply repair cosmetic flaws on buildings, such as
filling small cracks in walls.

Two main improvements were needed before it could be effective as a
non-lethal weapon. First, a foam needed to be developed that was strong
enough to restrict movement, but not so heavy as to make it unwieldy or
so hard that removing those captured would require specialized tools.
Second, the foam needed to remain liquid long enough to encase a target
while hardening quickly enough to trap it.

Advancements in nanotechnology, particularly the engineering of carbon
nano-tubes, allowed for the formulation of several foams that fit these
requirements. Once developed, the foam was quickly utilized for
law-enforcement and military purposes. It eventually spread into
civilian hands, where it has seen use for hunting and trapping.

Usage
-----

The bombs can take a variety of forms. The two most popular are as a
form of land mine and as a grenade. The mine forms are typically
utilized as traps, while the grenades are more often used by law
enforcement to capture rioters and criminals. Other forms, such as
rockets and actual bombs are more often used by the military or SWAT
teams to capture heavily armed targets.

Regardless of the method of deployment, once triggered, the bombs eject
their casings, releasing the foam from its high pressure, where it
rapidly expands. Most bombs expand to about one and a half to two meters
in diameter within the space of a second, enveloping the majority of a
target, preferably leaving only their head uncovered. Inside of another
second, the foam hardens to roughly the same hardness as stone, fully
restricting movement for captured body parts.

The foam is typically able to be removed either by the application of
heat or water, which will rapidly dissolve it. Some versions are more
difficult to remove, requiring chisels or specialized chemicals to
remove.

Aside from capturing targets, the foam bombs have also seen use to
create impromptu cover and barriers during combat. A bomb can rapidly
create a sturdy shield against bullets and explosives, though it may
provide only marginal protection against lasers and plasma weapons which
can quickly dissolve heat-activated foams.

See Also
--------

-   [Military technology](1atx3NGYkl3oP5JiEa1ShQ)
-   [Chronicle: And to Live in Peace](3VmJn2sgpvJfGhqaDdYOAL)
