# Cruisers
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/cruisers

**Cruisers** are mid-sized ships, primarily designed for combat, that
are among the oldest class of ship in [New Eden](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk). Cruisers emerged fairly early into
the conquest of space as a favored class, being large enough to survive
sustained fire while having enough maneuverability and flexibility to
fill a variety of roles. They possess four advanced variants; Heavy
Assault Ships, Recon Ships, Heavy Interdictors, and Logistics Ships. A
fifth type, the Strategic Cruiser, is the size of a traditional cruiser,
but is a vastly different in concept.

History
-------

The cruiser is the oldest class of ship still in wide use throughout New
Eden. Earlier classes were generic vessels that were expected to fill
many roles at once, including combat, science, exploration, and
transport. For many years, this was all that was needed, as space was
sparsely populated and relatively peaceful.

However, as space travel became more important and interstellar trade
grew vital, the need to protect vessels became necessary. While the
generic ships were used for a time, it quickly became apparent that they
were not particularly well-suited to the task. The multi-purpose ships
were given heavier armor and had non-combat systems replaced with
weapons and systems dedicated to those ends.

The cruiser has evolved significantly since those early years, though
the changes have been gradual upgrades rather than sweeping alterations
of design. Modern cruisers are faster, more powerful, and much more
specialized than ever before. They have moved from being the main ship
of the line to support roles, as heavier battlecruisers and
battleships have taken over those
roles. Many cruisers are no longer even primarily intended as combat
vessels, but rather are used for purposes as mundane as mining.

Design
------

Cruisers are typically two to three times the size of a
frigate and roughly a fifth or less as
large as a battleship. As medium-size ships, they are not quite the
self-contained towns that battleships are, but they are still capable of
extended deployments where they do not dock for days or weeks at a time.
Because of this, they tend to be somewhat more spacious and livable than
frigates, though even the most comfortable cruiser is cramped compared
to a space station.

Toeing the line between armor and maneuverability is the primary concern
of the cruiser. They must be capable of shrugging off the fire of
faster, smaller frigates while being able to avoid the weapons of larger
ships that can rip them to shreds. The proportion of armor and shielding
to propulsive power varies from design to design, though most find a
comfortable middle ground. Some cruisers can be quite tough and take a
significant pounding from even larger ships before succumbing; others
are difficult for even frigates to catch, but are subsequently easily
destroyed once they are.

After propulsion and armor, cruisers dedicate most of their remaining
design to their primary purpose. Combat vessels typically are given
targeting and tracking systems and specialized energy grids that allow
them to more effectively use their weapons. Electronic warfare ships
give the space to advanced electronic and sensor systems. Other, less
common designs, have their own dedicated systems as needed.

Crew
----

Cruisers crew compliments typically number in
the upper tens to low hundreds, depending on the size of the vessel and
its mission layout. Rapid response and garrison cruisers tend to utilize
the low end of the spectrum, using only the crew needed to fulfill its
primary function and few others. These crew tend to be gunners (on
combat ships), engineers, and navigators, with command staff as needed.

Long-term patrol ships and cruisers assigned to scientific and
exploration missions tend to carry more crew to fill other functions, to
ease rotations, and cover for cases of sickness or injury. In these
missions, a sizable portion of the crew are custodial in nature, being
responsible for such things as preparing and serving meals, cleaning,
and other menial tasks.

Because cruisers are relatively tough, have plenty of redundancy among
personnel, and don't have any particularly special needs, many rookie
crews are assigned to work them. Many gunners cut their teeth manning a
cruiser's weapon systems, while their smaller and more compact powergrid
and electronic systems allow engineers and electricians to develop their
skills on lesser scales.
