# Marauders
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/marauders

Marauders are a class of [battleship](vEsIuJJVnWWgEJ5JKZif7)
designed for long term deployment in hostile environments without
logistical support. Equipped with Bastion deployment and advanced
dual-hardpoint technology, Marauders boast devastating firepower and
enhanced defensive systems and are almost completely self sufficient.
They further sport an enhanced Micro Jump Drive array, a large cargo bay
and augmented tractor beam subsystems.

###History

Battleship class starships have fulfilled various roles throughout the
centuries, from interplanetary colonial transports used by the [Amarr Empire](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) during their first expansions
traversing the cluster, to [Federation Navy](y2DAUzy3B6kc7fBww7nl1)
behemoths capable of unleashing colossal destruction for the duration of
the [Gallente-Caldari War](1ehjby0lOpdwMJf9CprPtV). Since
contact between the four empires was established, these starships have
evolved into the role of engaging similar sized vessels, while providing
logistical support in fleet formations. Whether on patrol in friendly
territory or deep behind enemy lines, battleships have become the
backbone of most mid to large size fleets and the Marauder class
battleship enhances these key attributes, while providing extra utility
to veteran pilots.

The concept of the Marauder was first unveiled during the final months
of YC109, during a [Duvolle Laboratories](3QCpkge6X3XwSBJ3DLTrn0) press conference to
showcase revolutionary hardpoint technology. Duvolle Laboratories
streamed a live broadcast of four prototype battleships demonstrating
the new hardpoint system integral to the Marauder design. Shortly after
the exhibit, leading research and development corporations from across
the four empires were invited to bid on exclusive rights to the
technology and the experimental hulls on display. The successful
participants of the auction were [Carthum Conglomerate](4CHDNOP9kybPmF3TdhufUV), [Lai Dai Corporation](5k5GiWRlFceyTjLSz71XT) and [Boundless Creation](6xDf0BsksHmYUwwaGDBbke), who, with the help of Duvolle
Laboratories, developed the specifications of the technology to their
personal requirements. The public release of the first-generation
Marauders appeared several weeks later on the eve of YC110.

Since their inception, Marauders have enjoyed substantial popularity
amongst experienced capsuleers and empire navies alike, primarily due to
their high damage resistance, uncompromising firepower and battlefield
versatility. It is fairly common to witness Marauders being deployed to
combat against hostile pirate factions operating in hidden deadspace
complexes or as vanguards in a military taskforce.

In YC115, Lai Dai Corporation unveiled their second generation Golem
class Marauder during a comparatively low-key press conference. The next
day, broadcast live across all four empires, Lai Dai showcased their
refit Marauder with the Bastion module. A single Golem was parked
before their headquarters in Airkio, facing off against an entire
[LDPS](71xSSv6YYS0G4EeQKQdXJu) squadron. Before an
audience of millions, the Golem and its new defenses survived a
withering assault from the collected police squadron. Following the
resounding success of their public demonstration, Lai Dai quickly filled
its maximum legal limit of orders before it was forced to share the
technology with its competitors. In the following months, Duvolle
Laboratories, Carthum Conglomerate, and Boundless Creation had all
developed working retrofits of the module on their existing Marauder
hulls. By early November, the new hulls had hit capsuleer markets, with
older models receiving a free retrofit as well.

###Technology

Marauders benefit from two groundbreaking innovations, pioneered by
Caldari and Gallente engineering prowess. The first is the Lai-Dai
Corporation developed "Bastion" retrofit module, often considered
similar to the Siege modules utilized by larger
dreadnought type vessels. As with the
Siege module, the Bastion module redirects power from the ships warp
core and propulsion toward defenses and weaponry. As with the Siege
module, this leaves the ship incapable of moving, navigating traffic
queues, or entering warp. Unlike the warp and engine systems which are
always active, the on/off nature of regenerative defenses and weapons
combined with the lack of hull space to fit onboard neutralizers meant
the Marauder class needed a way to safely dispose of extra power. This
necessitated a complete redesign of the vessels structure and power
networking for the inclusion of so called 'Bastion-gates', vast moving
parts of the hull that open to expose release vents directly into space.
Such operations require a pilot with an advanced knowledge of High
Energy Physics to direct the flow of raw power throughout and sometimes
out of the ship.

The Bastion-gates' venting of extra power from the ship has the
ancillary effect of creating a vast ionic field of interference that
prevents any remote effects from reaching the ship. Unfortunately, an
unavoidable and distinctly negative side effect of the Bastion-gate is
the interference with the ship's sensors even when closed, which leaves
the Marauder vulnerable to electronic warfare under normal operation.

The second crucial technology that puts the Marauder into a class of its
own is the Duvolle Laboratories' development of a dual-hardpoint system,
over the traditional singular hardpoints present on other battleship and
starship hulls. Using both hardware and software modifications, the
combined hardpoints can replicate the combat effectiveness of two
individual weapon hardpoints triggered simultaneously. This is achieved
by modifying the primary hardpoint weapon mounts with the components
from a secondary hardpoint, which are used to regulate the power
routing, tracking and targeting subsystems. This provides increased
target acquisition and accuracy enhancements, while an advanced power
management system in conjunction with updated control software, allows
the dual-hardpoint to operate in parameters which effectively double the
damage potential of its assigned weapon system. Due to the high power
requirements of a dual-hardpoint, it is currently only possible to
operate four of these dual-hardpoints while still providing enough
energy for the rest of the ship, its fitted modules and the four
traditional, singular hardpoints configured for utilitarian functions.
This also means that the weapon systems attached to dual-hardpoints are
almost fully automated, as the highly unstable and intense power draw of
these systems could prove disastrous to ship and crew if human error
caused a malfunction.

A resulting benefit of the dual-hardpoint technology is that four weapon
systems take up approximately half the space of eight, which translates
to a large portion of internal areas of the ship freed up for other
purposes. In the case of Marauders, this means the Bastion systems
embedded throughout the hull and a substantially larger cargo bay than
other battleships. To supplement the large cargo bay, the four
utilitarian hardpoints were improved with intricate gravity manipulation
and alignment subsystems which, when synced with tractor beam modules,
greatly improve the reach and speed of the directed gravitational field.
Finally, the Marauder is equipped with an improved pre-spooling array
for Micro-Jump Drives, reducing the effective cool down time between
jumps.

### Crew

Marauders are often more cramped than their basic counterparts due to
the interior space devoted to Bastion operations. The crew of a Marauder
is typically a little less than that of other battleships, ranging from
a little over a hundred essential personnel to nearly a thousand crew
members and their families. This is usually dependent on the nature and
location of deployment. However, due to Marauders being especially
utilized for lengthy tours of duty, the latter is more common. Despite
the risks, a space faring family can etch out a rigid but reasonable
life aboard a Marauder, having access to basic services and commodities,
employment opportunities for menial tasks, living quarters only
marginally smaller than on some stations, and in the event of a
Marauder's armor and shields being neutralized, priority to escape pods
which launch long before the danger of a catastrophic hull breach.

A more significant difference between the crew complement of a Marauder
and that of other battleship class starships is the distribution of crew
members in the gunnery and engineering sections. A Marauder's
dual-hardpoint weapon systems utilize advanced automation, which means
only a handful of seasoned and skilled gunnery personnel are needed to
monitor the dual-hardpoint subsystems and oversee their operation. This
makes a large, dedicated gunnery crew unnecessary. Due to the presence
of the Bastion system, a Marauder generally possesses an enhanced
engineering contingent that carefully monitor the flow of power.
Alongside these crew members are assorted groups of technicians,
mechanics, and wreckage retrieval specialists that are essential to the
self sufficiency of a Marauder. They are able to make use of most
salvage recovered whether it be to to perform repairs, enhance ship
systems, replenish supplies or even for use in trade.

Generally, the experience and service records of crew assigned to
Marauders vary greatly; the one exception of course being the gunnery
and engineering crew. Nevertheless, serving aboard a Marauder is usually
considered a prestigious opportunity, and as such any inexperienced or
rookie crew members assigned to the core ship systems tend to be either
naturally skillful or intellectually superior to their peers.

### See Also
-   [Battleships](vEsIuJJVnWWgEJ5JKZif7)
-   [Chronicle: All These Lives are Fit to Ruin](7CoNFiZlgKK70zQ0m1uhiv)
