# Silphy en Diabel
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/silphy-en-diabel

The unofficial leader of [The Syndicate](5aCxBhwo0vxK42kDWY4vKJ), Silphy en Diabel is a former [Sisters of EVE](77ihwsVRHRojCaPC5XZn2g) who returned to Syndicate space to save her family's fortune.

Family background
-----------------

The unofficial leader of the syndicate in years past was the governor of
Poitot station, Dorn en Diabel. A decade ago en Diabel died in a freak
accident, meaning his mind couldn't be transferred to his clone. His
eldest son inherited his father's position as station manager of Poitot
station. Not possessing his father's shrewd political mind young Gare en
Diabel was clearly out of his league and his equally weak siblings on
Poitot were incapable of lending the kind of assistance needed.

Youth
-----

But one child of Dorn en Diabel was not on Poitot, nor had been for more
than five years. Silphy en Diabel, his youngest, had been sent off to
the Sisters of EVE after one heated row too many with her father. Alone
among Dorn en Diabel's offspring Silphy had inherited her father's wits
and passion, as well as her mother's fiery temper. Her stay with the
Sisters, initially intended as a punishment, grew into enthusiasm for
Silphy - for the first time she was free of her father's iron will and
free to live as she liked. She struck a friendship with Santimona
Sarpati - an influential Sister that also happened to be sister to the
notorious [V. Salvador Sarpati](4uoKdzOSHLBe297ANAvD2G), head of
the [Serpentis Corporation](64u7D7YksvODwmCFL3llMs). But just as Silphy's
career with the Sisters seemed poised for rapid take off, she decided to
heed the desperate calls of her family and head back home to Poitot.

Entrance into the Syndicate
---------------------------

Once there Silphy quickly assessed the situation and then in one swift
stroke as cunning and brutal as any her father had deceived, she seized
the initiative. First, she altered the station charter so that from now
on the populace would elect the governor for life, this went unopposed
as the family's enemies thought this a sign of weakness - their view
confirmed a week later when one of their own was elected governor. But
then Silphy put the next step of her plan into motion: she secretly
arranged for attacks on all inbound food supply ships, thus slowly
putting Poitot station in a state of starvation. Naturally, the enraged
populace blamed the new governor. Silphy, using her Sisters of EVE
influence, then had emergency food supplies brought in on vessels of the
en Diabel family (which were of course left alone).

Thus Silphy made herself champion of the people and when the governor
was driven out of office Silphy won the next elections by a landslide.
Having shattered the reputation of her enemies she started
systematically ruining them financially until she was the undisputed
leader of Poitot station. At the same time Silphy strengthened her
position as the head of the en Diabel family - she sent her brothers
abroad and kept a strict control of their monetary allowance to keep
them dependent on her. She has also slowly asserted herself as supreme
leader on Poitot station, the brief influence of the populace soon to
fade to nothing.

Recent activities
-----------------

In the years since Silphy en Diabel became governess she has regained
her fathers prominence as the unofficial leader of the leaderless Intaki
syndicate. Her power has never been seriously tested, although she lost
her connections with the Sisters of EVE once it was discovered that
she'd collaborated with the Serpentis Corporation in her bid for black
market dominance in and around the Federation. Santimona Sarpati, once
her good and trusted friend and ally, has turned her back on her and
just as she calls her brother "King Sarpati" she now mockingly calls
Silphy "Queen Silphy" of the Syndicate, stating that they compliment
each other perfectly in their exploitation and contempt of their fellow
humans.
