# Year YC110 - Second Half
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/year-yc110-second-half

Continued from the first half of YC110, available [here](4s7KrRaqQANTatQhzlSaRi).


June
----

June of the year YC110 was not to be a month of anti-climax when set
against the revolutionary events of May, though many might have wished
it had been when the dust of events settled. The first few days were
full of problems but the pace of events was to accelerate beyond
imagining on a day that any history of New Eden will surely count as the
most tumultuous for centuries, if not ever.

It started with the
Minmatar Republic slipping further into chaos and the Caldari State
seeing Gallente fleeing in the face of Tibus Heth's ascendancy. The
Angel Cartel in Skarkon held a referendum on its presence as the ruling
power that showed the population to back them and not Karin Midular's
Republic. Krusual Tribe militia were fired on by Republic Fleet vessels
on the Minmatar-[Ammatar](2RCNqNOW8kV95yCFhjfhnz) border as the government
and military tried to stop total disintegration and war from breaking
out.

### Political Turmoil

Tibus Heth, waxing in power, declared a national draft, invoking the
Malkalen Disaster as evidence of the need for the Caldari State to
defend itself. Violence on Caldari Prime flared up once more as the
sight of Gallentes fleeing the State caused anti-Caldari riots on the
troubled planet. President Souro Foiritan was moved to decree martial
law on Caldari Prime and pointed to Tibus Heth as the responsible party
for 'inciting' the violence.

With the Republic lurching out of control, and the State and Federation
at odds, the Amarr Empire seemed momentarily to be uniquely serene among
the great empires of the core. This serenity was rudely shattered by the
news that a large population of [Starkmanir](1L5eoorvzFUylWwag0xeQw) had
been discovered among the slave population of the Ammatar Mandate.
Thought all but extinct after a campaign of extermination by the Amarr
centuries ago, the discovery of a viable population of surviving
Starkmanir within territories essentially controlled by the Amarr came
as an astonishing surprise.

Confirmed by the Servant Sisters of
EVE and Minmatar biotech corporation Eiyr & Co, the news transfixed the
Minmatar Republic, with Prime Minister Karin Midular acknowledging the
news and welcoming the pledge by Amarr Court Chamberlain Dochuta Karsoth
to do everything possible to preserve the Starkmanir. Others in the
Republic expressed dismay at how readily Midular moved to work with the
Amarr on the Starkmanir issue. The Speaker of the Republic Parliament,
Maleatu Shakor, long a critic of the government and what he considered
policies of 'appeasement,' called an emergency session of Parliament to
hold a vote of no confidence in the administration of Karin Midular.

Amid violent scenes, the vote was tallied and found to be overwhelmingly
in favour of the no-confidence motion. In response, Karin Midular
dissolved the Republic Parliament and declared Maleatu Shakor to be
"expelled" from government. As news of the dissolution of the Parliament
spread, riots erupted across the Republic with citizens enraged by the
lack of action on the Starkmanir issue. Curiously, within a day the
Angel Cartel was to abandon its claim to Skarkon, leaving many
facilities behind it. Despite this, Shakor commented that the Skarkon
issue was one of many that led to the vote of no confidence in the
Midular government.

As the Republic found itself convulsed by political turmoil, Chamberlain
Karsoth moved to assert his control over the situation within the Amarr
Empire, recalling Admiral Vanazir Saracen to the Throne Worlds and
putting Saracen's Amarr 7th Fleet on stand-by. Echoes of the Theology
Council Justices affair were seen when Karsoth detained Admiral Saracen
on charges of high treason as soon as the latter arrived in Amarr. The
7th Fleet was swiftly reassigned from the Bleak Lands to duties in the
Aridia region, justified by the lack of any Defiants activity for over a
week.

Even though former
Republic Admiral Kanth Filmir spoke out in support of Karin Midular the
day before, the ninth day of June saw the disappearance of the Prime
Minister and ended with the Gallente Federation losing all diplomatic
contact with the Minmatar Republic. This perplexing state of affairs,
taken with Karin Midular's absence, seemed to indicate the total
collapse of the Minmatar administration. In fact, it indicated the faint
traces of something far more than the mere fall of a government.

### 110.06.10

110.06.10 is a date that it is inconceivable could ever be forgotten by
the New Eden cluster. It is the date that more than any other defines
the year YC110 and perhaps can be considered the beginning of a new era,
a new age.

The fulcrum around which the day revolved was the unprecedented
neutralization of CONCORD, an unthinkable happening in the political and
military order of New Eden and yet one which did indeed take place.
Early in the morning, Yulai was invaded once more by a combined
[Minmatar-Thukker fleet](7JAFwYwGqzvPv7yLIDlfjp), once more unidentified
and once more apparently using jump drives and portals somehow bypassing
the cynosural jamming technology used by CONCORD to secure the system.
The instant the invading fleet arrived, CONCORD shut down the stargates
leading to Yulai and mobilized its entire fleet. Given the size and
power of the Minmatar-Thukker fleet that entered Yulai that morning, it
is doubtful any measures could have been taken by CONCORD to stop what
happened next.

As the Naglafar-class dreadnoughts
of the invading fleet began to pound the CONCORD Bureau station, their
escorts engaged the CONCORD defence forces. Casualties in those first
moments of intense, close-quarter space warfare were massive on both
sides, but the invaders were to prevail. As the defenses of CONCORD's
shining star of a headquarters were crippled and overwhelmed, the entire
CONCORD network failed. When the Minmatar capitals delivered the death
blow, the CONCORD rapid-reaction system - foundation of peace in New
Eden for decades - was disabled, leaving DED forces reliant on fast
deployment, out of position and effectively impotent. Their work done,
the assault force retreated back through their portals leaving their
awesome flagship, a Ragnarok-class [Titan](XH5ZPvSBGGIStAEWqWHOl), to
unleash its Gjallarhorn doomsday weapon just before it departed Yulai,
ensuring the absolute destruction of the CONCORD Bureau and any
remaining defense vessels.

Despite the destruction, an evacuation of the station had been possible
and a majority of the CONCORD Assembly delegates were later found alive.
Search and rescue vessels combed the system as the Inner Circle took the
precaution of evacuating their own station and relocating to an unknown
location on Yulai VIII. Surviving CONCORD vessels were able to report a
total absence of Minmatar and Thukker vessels in the system. With
CONCORD looking to its own, the effects of a crashed network and the
absence of DED enforcement ships began to be felt. Jita, for some the
hub of New Eden itself, experienced the consequences in short order,
with pirates flooding into the system to take advantage of the
opportunity to plunder without interruption from CONCORD
[battleships](vEsIuJJVnWWgEJ5JKZif7). In some respects, the Jita
market crashing, along with most others across the cluster, as SCC
systems went offline was a minor matter.

### The Minmatar Fleet

Analysts would later recognize the strike at CONCORD to be a means to an
end, rather than an act with any element of political significance in
itself, for the next step in the broader plan was not long in coming as
events shifted to encompass the Ammatar Mandate and the fate of the
Starkmanir. Taking the Ammatar Fleet by surprise, a Minmatar-Thukker
armada jumped into Jarizza system and, after making short work of the
scattered Ammatar patrol groups, began deploying across the system. In
particular, the invaders massed the bulk of their force over the planet
Halturzhan (Jarizza IV), where the surviving Starkmanir had been
discovered.

As waves of dropships descended on the planet to recover the Starkmanir,
unconfirmed reports carried the news that the Ammatar Consulate
Governor, Ana Utulf, was encouraging her citizens to defect to the
invaders. This turned out to be true and probably accounts for the
notable lack of resistance to the Minmatar incursion into Ammatar space
and on the ground. Of course, the presence in the field of a
Ragnarok-class Titan may also have factored into the successes of the
invaders.

Barely had the Amarr registered the incursion into Ammatar space when
they had to deal with a second Minmatar-Thukker armada in the heartlands
of the Empire. Also backed by a Ragnarok-class, this fleet struck at
[Kor-Azor Prime](62Qsy38P0XnR1c2JhWHzFq), a core system and home of
the Royal House of Kor-Azor. Heavy space-fighting across the region was
seen as elements of the invading fleet sought to deal with the dispersed
Kor-Azor forces before they could regroup. Landings took place on the
heavily-populated planet of Eclipticum, and the Kor-Azor Family Bureau
Station was taken by Minmatar shock troops.

Panic seemed to grip the Empire as rumors of a third Minmatar-Thukker
armada swept the Domain region, causing Amarr troops to begin mass
executions of slaves in [Sarum Prime](uO7T7UMc6L0S8OUcHJJqP). As the
presence of just such a third invasion fleet was confirmed and fierce
fighting erupted in Sarum Prime, the Imperial Navy appeared to rally and
began to mass forces in Sarum Prime in an effort to make a stand.

In the Minmatar Republic, a state of stupefied confusion among the
populace gave way to chaotic rejoicing as the news of the invasions and
the rescue of the Starkmanir overtook the disturbing news of defections
in the Ammatar Mandate. As it became clear that the Amarr Empire was
being beaten on multiple fronts by Minmatar-Thukker invasion forces, and
the armadas were reported to be led by the legendary Elders, the
celebrations took on a frenzied, almost primal air.

In the background of these celebrations, more sinister events were
taking place as literally hundreds of government officials at every
level of the Republic apparatus were assassinated in what has become
known as 'The Purge.' Every corpse left behind by the assassins had a
dossier of evidence with it purporting to show the complicity of the
victim with the Amarr Empire's efforts to infiltrate, destabilize and
control the Republic. This deeply controversial aspect of events in the
Republic is a topic seldom spoken of since that day.

As the Imperial Navy desperately assessed the movements and strength of
the invaders - military analysts discovering that decisive engagements
had taken place in the Bleak Lands, Derelik and Kador before the
invasion fleets arrived at their primary targets - all prospect of
successfully counter-attacking in the Kor-Azor region collapsed with an
assault in the Andrub system leaving the Ministry of War station, hub of
the regional command, offline. Sarum Prime became the entire focus of
the Amarr Empire's defense and the Imperial Navy continued to marshal
its forces with that in mind.

### The Caldari Invasion

With CONCORD neutralized and two
empires seemingly engaged in a fight to the death, another empire
decided to seize the opportunity to act. Thus was the Caldari Invasion
of the Gallente Federation launched, even as the Amarr Empire looked to
rally its forces against the Minmatar invaders. The Caldari State
invaded in force at the Kassigainen border crossing, using multiple jump
portals as well as the [stargate](416pCzXGIwn2Tt7feZYSpk).

The Gallente Federation had no inkling that a task force numbering in
the thousands of ships was approaching their border until the invasion
force had crossed over. The total failure of the Federation
early-warning system known as "Tripwire" echoed many technological
failures on this day, not least the ease with which CONCORD's defensive
strategy was bypassed. Hard lessons were being learned on all sides but
the Federation was perhaps to be forced into learning the hardest ones
of all.

Within half an hour of the Caldari task force crossing the border it
entered Luminaire, the home system of the Gallente Federation and
ancestral home system of the Caldari people. No Federation forces of
sufficient strength to stop it could be mustered in time. A
Leviathan-class Titan and capitals from all of the Big Eight
megacorporations spearheaded the invasion. The thousands-strong force
proceeded to lock down the system and impose an unbreakable blockade,
despite the best desperate efforts of Federation Navy reinforcements.

In a move that some might consider rather cursory, the Gallente
[Senate](x8brOPuT22Bcly2Sikkt5) in Villore declared war on the Caldari
Senate in an emergency session called by Senator [Mentas Blaque](1bZzUGejHEhyHp6LVUtjBT). Panic erupted elsewhere in the
Federation, as the news of full-scale invasion by Caldari forces spread
over the news feeds, urgently replacing accounts of the shocking events
elsewhere in New Eden. Federation systems in the assumed path of the
invasion suffered the greatest chaos and transit systems were
effectively paralyzed as citizens made to flee from the invaders. In the
Caldari State, the news was equally shocking but provoked a strange
solemnity in the citizenry, as if the Caldari people were only now
understanding what it meant to be at war again.

The Gallente response to the invasion rested on two main planks: the
first resistance within Luminaire itself and the second a counter-thrust
by the Federation Navy. In respect of Luminaire, the Caldari Navy
concentrated on maintaining the blockade, which it successfully held
throughout the invasion, and on gaining control of [Caldari Prime](1yEhptNaSoG42YRSay711i). Bloody as the invasion was, the
horrors that would have attended an assault on the densely-populated
[Gallente Prime](41JbD6M3Keq024T44ULv7a) were not unleashed. Yet an
assault on a populated planet was undertaken nonetheless and the Caldari
Navy's first move was a bombardment of Caldari Prime's defenses, a
bombardment replete with irony in more ways than one.

As the Caldari Navy carried out its bombardment of the Caldari Prime
defenses and established its superiority in Luminaire space beyond all
doubt, the Federation Navy began its counterthrust. Recognizing that a
relief of Luminaire was unattainable, President Foiritan authorized his
forces to converge on Tierijev, a system under Caldari control that
stood astride a route leading to the heart of the State. As the
Federation Navy hastened to its new objective, Caldari dropships were
entering the atmosphere of Caldari Prime and mechanized infantry were
soon to be landing in the cities of Tovil and Arcurio.

Then, quite suddenly, President Souro Foiritan called off the
counterattack in Tierijev. Within a quarter of an hour of that order,
the Gallente Federation ceded control of Caldari Prime to the Caldari
State and Tibus Heth personally raised the State flag over the city of
Arcurio. All this is believed to have followed negotiations between
Souro Foiritan and Tibus Heth. While the precise details of those
negotiations remain under diplomatic seal, it is alleged that Heth
threatened to bomb Gallente populations centers in Luminaire if Foiritan
did not accede to his demands.

Hostilities on Caldari Prime came to an end at 16:00 EST, the agreed
truce coming into full effect with all sides under ceasefire orders. The
truce stipulating that the Caldari State's claims are for Caldari Prime
alone, the bulk of their navy forces began to withdraw almost
immediately from Federation space. With the blockade of Luminaire
lifted, the Federation Navy was able to shadow the main Caldari force
while discovering that the Leviathan-class Titan and its escorts
remained in orbit around Caldari Prime.

### Mekhios

The humiliation of Souro
Foiritan and the Gallente Federation was achieved in a lightning strike
typical of Caldari military doctrine, but elsewhere in New Eden heavy
space fighting had taken on the aspect of a brutal grind. The Imperial
Navy, rallying its forces above the planet [Mekhios](3VOfvlm6gGI0LRutDj5MhI)
(Sarum Prime III), engaged the enormous Minmatar-Thukker armada in orbit
there with determined fury. By the time the Caldari-Gallente conflict
had effectively been settled, the warfare above Mekhios had become a
grim stalemate, the Minmatar Ragnarok's doomsday weapon rendered
impotent by the continuous stream of dropships laden with rescued slaves
returning from Mekhios.

The breaking of this stalemate was perhaps the most astonishing event in
a day filled with hitherto unthinkable happenings. Even as the Caldari
Navy withdrew back to the State, the Amarr Imperial Navy began to
retreat from its positions over Mekhios. The Elder-led fleet disdained
pursuit and held its own position as the Amarr warped away. Perhaps
assuming the Imperial Navy to be broken, the Minmatar-Thukker taskforce
continued its work and redoubled efforts to rescue the many slaves on
Mekhios.

Perhaps the commanders of the invasion fleet were puzzled by the
appearance of a lone squadron of only thirteen Amarr battleships over
Mekhios, but we will never know what they thought when they realized
what their overviews were telling them about the identity of the lead
Amarr ship's commander. [Jamyl Sarum](6jGpYH3ai8pLLJboHVuA3L), returned
from the dead, leading a squadron of battleships against an entire
Minmatar-Thukker armada. The impact this news had on the New Eden
cluster when it spread across the news feeds was powerful enough. How it
affected the men of that armada can only be conjectured. For analysis of
telescopes, detector arrays and fragments of holodata all point to one
thing: a massive explosion above Mekhios destroyed that entire invasion
fleet. No ship survived, no-one survived.

With their fleet destroyed, the Minmatar forces on the surface of
Mekhios were doomed. Amarr retaliation was swift and merciless, crushing
the invaders. The woes of Mekhios were not ended, though, as vast
quantities of wreckage from battle and the destroyed armada began to
fall into the atmosphere, wreaking havoc across the planet. Jamyl
Sarum's victory here had come at a price.

Perceiving that the Amarr had gained the upper hand by virtue of Jamyl
Sarum's possession of a weapon of terrible power, even if the nature of
that weapon was not fully understood, the remaining Elder fleets elected
to retreat from their positions in Kor-Azor and Derelik. The Imperial
Navy pursued with Jamyl Sarum at their head. As the invaders became the
hunted, an act of heroism by the Defiants rebels allowed the retreating
fleets to gain ground. Engaging the pursuing Amarr forces in a desperate
holding action, the Minmatar freedom fighters paid with their lives to
buy precious time for their Minmatar and Thukker comrades. When the
Imperial Navy once more took up the pursuit of the Elder fleets, no
trace of the Defiants remained.

### CONCORD's network comes back online

Appropriately enough, the final act of the day mirrored the first as
CONCORD finally restored its rapid-reaction capability and brought its
networks back on line. Issuing a cease and desist order to all
combatants, CONCORD designated the Minmatar-Thukker fleets as
mercenaries charged with "crimes against humanity." They alone could be
engaged at will. The CONCORD Assembly was not finished, however, as it
invoked the "[Emergency Militia War Powers Act](39y03QDhd4N8GXwoV2zSha)," providing
for the four empires to form capsuleer militias. In this way were the
[State Protectorate](2VlyV0CDyxFv0Qg3N3dW8k), [Federal Defense Union](5RoHHUZd3JdAg1HhBi5BAP), [Tribal Liberation Force](11ibKkJrDSo9khSLpweUnq) and [24th Imperial Crusade](3QsjSgklI3Le0W5KfKatW9) brought into being.

While the Imperial Navy pursued the fleeing Elder fleets to the border
with the Minmatar Republic, Jamyl Sarum chose to heed the call of
CONCORD and avoid a confrontation with the Republic itself, pulling up
the Amarr forces at the Vard stargate in Ezzara system. The Elder fleet
was allowed to pass through Republic space without contest, the Republic
Fleet refusing to engage Minmatar-Thukker armada no matter what criminal
status CONCORD may have given it.

As the dust of 110.06.10 began to settle, reports indicated that the
Elders had rescued the entire Starkmanir population together with tens
of millions of other slaves. Amarr Court Chamberlain Dochuta Karsoth was
found to be missing with his once-loyal Ministry of Internal Order
searching for him. As Jamyl Sarum's fleets began to return home, the
Order of St. Tetrimon took it upon itself to speak for the Amarr, with
Grand Master Horm declaring that: "God's children rejoice as His light
returns home, and the light shall bring death and despair on His
enemies."

### The Aftermath

The aftermath of 110.06.10 in the Amarr Empire included fearful
reprisals against those rebellious slaves that were left behind when the
Elder fleets retreated. Thousands upon thousands of rebels were killed
as the Imperial Navy used orbital bombardment to eliminate any holdouts.
Military mobilization in the [Khanid Kingdom](5VtgxEr1vnxuazt8lvQLoj)
was suspended as it became clear that no incursions had taken place in
its territory, and [Khanid II](5HlA8KgFOuLy4jTf3t54xf) calmed the
population with an address to the Kingdom. As Jamyl Sarum's return from
the dead was absorbed it met with mixed reactions within the Empire. Her
apparent failure to properly observe the ritual of
[Shathol'Syn](7uCmeRGL3bgVWlEWQ9TZQb) - requiring the suicide of all
remaining Royal Heirs on the accession of a new Emperor to the throne \-
constituted a religious crime. Yet counterbalancing this was the
critical role Sarum had assumed in halting and repelling the Minmatar
invaders.

While the Amarr Empire recovered itself, reports of a new region of
space opening up in the volume of space known as "[Black Rise](black-rise)" were confirmed. Convinced of their
strength, the Caldari State opened up the new region they had secretly
colonized and showed the Gallente Federation that yet another border
with the State now existed. Concerned with affairs within the
Federation, President Souro Foiritan addressed the nation and revealed
the treachery of Grand Admiral Anvent Eturrer, promising to bring him to
justice and pledging to restore the dignity of the Federation.

Even
though the formal militaries of the empires had ceased belligerent
operations, it soon became clear that the newly-formed capsuleer
militias would lose no time in fighting across the territories of all
four nations. Fleets of capsuleers numbering in the hundreds clashed
across Black Rise and the Bleak Lands in particular, with the State
Protectorate and 24th Imperial Crusade allying against the Federal
Defence Union and Tribal Liberation Force.

Despite the misgivings of some in the Amarr Empire, the Royal Heirs of
Ardishapur, Kador, Kor-Azor and Tash-Murkon backed Jamyl Sarum's claim
to the Imperial Throne, waiving their own rights to contest the
succession by trial. In the absence of a Court Chamberlain, [Aritcio Kor-Azor](2puF18pxR6b7AVuy3HE9IV), as son of the last Emperor
Doriam II, appointed the interim Chamberlain Hemirin. The Theology
Council was soon petitioned by Court Chamberlain Hemirin to approve his
declaration of Jamyl Sarum as Empress-elect. Moving swiftly, the
Theology Council confirmed the validity of the nomination of Jamyl Sarum
and authorized the Chamberlain to hold the Imperial Coronation as soon
as possible.

### Republic Parliament and the occupation of Caldari Prime

Even as the order of things seemed to be overturned in the Amarr Empire,
the Minmatar Republic was re-adjusting itself to the new reality. Having
called an emergency session of the Republic Parliament,
[Sebiestor](1fNour0sFTIcCFRVQM2pro) Chief and former Prime Minister
Karin Midular called for elections to be held as soon as possible.
Keitan Yun, now a hero to many, asked Maleatu Shakor to return to the
Republic. Within a few days, Shakor did just this, at the head of a
large fleet, and was escorted by the Republic Fleet to Matar, where he
was welcomed by Karin Midular and the other tribal chiefs.

Named as the unity candidate for the premiership of the Minmatar
Republic, Maleatu Shakor ran unopposed in an election that took place
within a week of his return. The turnout was the lowest on record for 30
years but counting, although a formality, was scheduled to take some
days.

As the terrible and fantastic month of June in the year YC110 drew to a
close, the occupation of Caldari Prime acquired a settled and routine
air, with the remaining Gallente military forced into hiding. The months
ahead would see guerrilla warfare, mass imprisonments and all the
problems of occupation on Caldari Prime.

July
----

July opened with the official declaration of the election of Maleatu
Shakor as Prime Minister of the Minmatar Republic. Almost as if the
pitch and pace of events from May through June could not be maintained
by a fatigued New Eden, the month saw little to astonish. The warring
capsuleer militias kept up a steady battle across contested systems,
with some seeing occupation while others were relieved by militias
supporting their sovereign powers. The Theology Council decided to
recall various artifacts from the Bleak Lands, now a region more
dangerous than ever it was when the Blood Raiders roamed its spaceways.

Street
violence was a minor theme of the month, as Federation citizens gave
vent to feelings of anger and humiliation in the wake of the Caldari
Invasion and the occupation of Caldari Prime. In the Republic too, gangs
of youths roamed, using their idolatry of Shakor and the tragic Defiants
as an excuse to vent their feelings. Perhaps the whole cluster was
gripped with the need to express pent up anger; even the [Mordu's Legion](5csCeDqUe1exvVyfPdL75Q) mercenary company experienced a surge
in recruitment.

August
------

August saw the idolatry of Maleatu Shakor result in tragedy as a pair of
foolish youths blinded themselves in imitation of the old white-eyed
hero. Elsewhere in the Republic, many Minmatar were so inspired by the
appearance of the legendary Elders that they set out as 'pilgrims' to
the Great Wildlands, where the Minmatar-Thukker fleets were believed to
have gone. At least one such convoy was to go missing in the course of
the month.

Huola system became the focus of warfare between the 24th Imperial
Crusade and the Tribal Liberation Force, as the Amarr searched for a
missing Ammatar scientist, Dresen Karnell, believed shot down in the
system at the end of July. Karnell was eventually found and extracted,
and the incident demonstrated the usefulness of militias to the empires
in achieving delicate objectives.

The occupation of Caldari Prime took a turn for the worse as Gallente
resistance fighters turned to bombings and used the tactics of a
guerrilla insurgency in the face of the well-equipped and large Caldari
military. The death toll rose steadily throughout the month, which ended
with the grim revelation of a secret prison set up by the Caldari
occupation force in an abandoned underwater arcology.

September
---------

September
got underway with a building backlash against the Federation military
erupting into plain sight, as an emergency summit held in Villore became
the focal point of Gallente criticism of the Navy's performance during
the Caldari Invasion. Acting to head off the anger of citizens across
the Federation before it destabilized his government further, President
Souro Foiritan announced the formation of a new division within the
[FIO](4Q7sdriIYVeeQANNNXF0nH), the "Special Department
of Internal Investigations and Federal Security," headed by Senator
Mentas Blaque, one-time bitter rival of Souro Foiritan but an undoubted
patriot. With its rather unwieldy name and a logo consisting of a plain
black Federation eagle, the new organization soon
became known as the "Black Eagles."

The Minmatar Republic saw subtle but definite change with the
inauguration of Prime Minister Maleatu Shakor as
"[Sanmatar](180IYq6xQy0PzfGH6hLEuO)" of the Minmatar people. A title
resurrected from the days of the Minmatar Empire, the Sanmatar was de
facto head of state in the old empire, with the role of mediating
between the tribes and guiding the nation as a whole. The transformation
of the office of Prime Minister into something harking back to tribal
times met with a mixed reaction within the Republic and beyond.

In the Caldari State, Tibus Heth's program of reforms had been in place
long enough for an independent audit to assess them and give a positive
report on their effects. A cautious reaction to this outside the State
was of little interest to State citizens, who enthusiastically backed
the Heth program. The Amarr Empire's Chamberlain Hemirin announced the
coronation of Jamyl Sarum for the Twenty-Sixth of September, but despite
much preparation it was later postponed until the first week of October.

October
-------

The first week of October was a time of
rejoicing for the Amarr Empire as Jamyl Sarum was crowned Empress Jamyl
I in the Cathedral of St. Kuria the Prophet on Amarr Prime. Coronation
proclamations followed, confirming Merimeth Sarum as the new Royal Heir
of House Sarum and appointing Sarum Hose Steward Pomik Haromi as Empress
Jamyl's new Court Chamberlain. The Ministry of Internal Order released
the footage of the coronation across the Empire so that all of the
Empress's subjects could watch the awe-inspiring event.

The Chief Executive Panel of the Caldari State got on with more mundane
affairs, as it established a Reform Guidance Board to oversee the
Provist reforms of the Caldari State in the absence on sick leave of
Caldari Providence Directorate COO Janus Bravour.

November
--------

November was to demonstrate just how
mutable the politics of the New Eden cluster had become. Even in
relatively small matters, such as the involvement of Royal Heirs [Uriam Kador](7LJKelrqDXAAUYi6o48Uno) and Yonis Ardishapur in the campaigning
of the 24th Imperial Crusade, or the strange corporate scandals that
collapsed the Caldari State's Reform Guidance Board, events seemed to
pile up with a new urgency. Perhaps after 110.06.10, even at five
months' remove, people believed that almost anything could spark
tumultuous change.

### Kador Incursion

Shocking as the Kador Incursion was, perhaps it was not quite so
startling as once it would have been. Alert watchers of interstellar
events might have felt something was in the wind when a 200-strong Amarr
fleet was in the Tash-Murkon region, and the ruling house of that vast
demesne declared they had no knowledge of the fleet nor any Imperial
Navy exercises in their territory. The astute would have felt something
unusual was definitely afoot when a similarly-sized force was detected
in the [Aridia](uPYIH9Hhde0bYIaZFR4eB) region.

It was surely a surprise, however, when this fleet of Amarr warships was
sighted crossing into Gallente Federation space. Reportedly under the
orders of Amarr Royal Heir Uriam Kador, the fleet made for the Ratillose
system and, upon arrival there, engaged in heavy fighting with the
Gallente defense forces. As the news of the incursion was confirmed, the
Imperial Navy declared the fleet 'rogue,' acting without the sanction of
the Ministry of War and not representing the Amarr Empire.

Whatever the Kador plan may have been \- and the reason for the attack
does remain obscure still \- it was thwarted by a massive Federation
counterattack as an Erebus-class Titan and accompanying Federation Navy
forces moved to destroy the invading fleet. Outnumbered at least four to
one and sustaining heavy losses, the Kador began to retreat immediately.
Commanding the counter-attack, Federation Grand Admiral Anteson Ranchel
declared that the Kador fleet would not be allowed to return to Amarr
territory. Whether some surviving elements did eventually limp back or
not, the Grand Admiral's promise was substantially made good and the
Gallente Federation was able to claim a 'decisive victory.'

The penalty for miscalculating so badly was initially a reprimand for
Uriam Kador from Empress Jamyl I and the confiscation of what remained
of the [House Kador](3ium7VluTCFnGS0TqpinlO) fleet. This last caused
some comment and it was noted that the Empress appeared to be bringing
back into force the old edict of Emperor [Heideran VII](4Olxc4nxWd7y1mjFPhvHnV) against military fleets independent of the
Imperial Navy. In the Gallente Federation, President Souro Foiritan
declared the Navy ready to protect the Federation with "terrible force"
and suggested that further action might be forthcoming.

### Gallente Response

It was not too much later in November when that further action
materialized, as a Federation Navy fleet moved in force across the
Aridia border. With Amarr Navy vessels monitoring their movements, but
not moving to intercept, the 100-strong fleet headed for Kador Prime.
The Federation Navy forces were able to overwhelm what was left of the
Kador defense fleet and sent boarding troops into the Kador Family
Bureau station in orbit around Kador Prime I. Shortly thereafter the
Federation fleet withdrew, its mission apparently successful, and
departed Kador Prime, heading for the Gallente Federation with no more
interference from the Imperial Navy than before.

Later that day, President Souro Foiritan addressed the Federation to
announce the capture of the traitor Grand Admiral [Anvent Eturrer](4ft267N4XjELE5by1uHCt5). It transpired that the extraction
of the renegade Federation officer was the primary goal of the operation
in Kador Prime and with this, and the dissolution of the Kador fleet,
the Federation considered the matter of the Kador Incursion closed.

For its part, the Amarr Empire maintained an inscrutable silence
throughout the affair. Empress Jamyl I's next public declaration
concerned the Ammatar Mandate, which she placed under the direct
authority of Royal Heir Yonis Ardishapur.

December
--------

December opened with the Federation citizenry rallying enthusiastically
behind their government and military in the wake of recent defensive and
offensive operations, not to mention the capture of the reviled Anvent
Eturrer. In contrast, the Caldari State was wracked with uncertainty
about its economy and the occupation of Caldari Prime continued to be
problematic, with the Gallente resistance found to be receiving
substantial offworld support.

The Amarr Empire was to see
further political developments as the Empress appointed Aritcio Kor-Azor
to the post of Imperial Chancellor and Yonis Ardishapur began to take
control of the Ammatar Mandate, sweeping out the failed Ammatar nobility
and placing his own vassals in positions of authority.

Unusual news of large-scale operations carried out against the Blood
Raider Covenant by the [Royal Khanid Navy](nQJFwBFQzGij9cZKKCrm7)
led to an even more astonishing revelation. After intense fighting and
massive losses on both sides, [The Khanid Kingdom](3hU3mCSvJlVYWYiNXMhzaL) was able to send the renegade
ex-Chamberlain Dochuta Karsoth in chains to its Amarr allies. That the
disgraced Chamberlain had chosen to hide among the heretical Blood
Raiders confirmed the rumors that had been whispered in the Empire since
his disappearance. Empress Jamyl I expressed her deep gratitude to King
[Khanid II](5HlA8KgFOuLy4jTf3t54xf), and the Kingdom and Empire seemed
closer than ever before.

The final days of the year saw three remarkable events, but one of these
towered above all others. On the 25th day of December YC110, the
traitors Anvent Eturrer and Dochuta Karsoth were executed by their
respective governments. The heretic and former Chamberlain was
extraordinarily permitted the small dignity of an execution held behind
closed doors. In this, perhaps Jamyl Sarum thought to send a message. In
the Gallente Federation, the renegade Federation Navy officer was put to
death in a quite different fashion. Anvent Eturrer was publicly executed
in the most grotesque fashion that the Federation could devise, as a
sound-sensitive chemical agent disrupted the very cells of his body in
response to the roars of the watching crowds. The contrast between these
executions was not lost on anyone.

While President Foiritan may have considered his work for the day done,
the Empress of Amarr did not. For following the execution of Karsoth,
she made a declaration that was so unexpected it could hardly have been
a more fitting finale to a year of so many unexpected events. By
Imperial decree, Empress Jamyl I ordered the emancipation of all slaves
of 9th generation and upwards, with the additional emancipation of all
slaves working as academics or theologians. Dominating the remainder of
the year, the emancipation edict's most immediate effect was to provoke
rejoicing among former slaves. Its longer-term effects remain to be seen
but as a sign of the ability of Empress Jamyl I to make radical change
it cannot be understated.
