# Exotic Tissue Sedimentation
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/exotic-tissue-sedimentation

**Derj's disease**, also known as **exotic tissue sedimentation** or
miner's disease, is a potentially fatal affliction caused by long-term
exposure to [augumene](2VfgjydQRNDmbJci2CLptK). The disease has four stages,
each with increasing health risks, though only the fourth is
irreversibly fatal. The disease is characterized by deposits of augumene
forming in the bloodstream and around neural pathways.

History
-------

Augumene was one of the first space-based ores to be discovered and
realized for its mineral potential. The ore is relatively common, easily
processed, and contains a large amount of valuable minerals in
comparison to junk rock. Early mining efforts were regularly conducted
by hand inside pressurized asteroid settlements, allowing miners to mine
outside of bulky pressure suits.

However, after several decades, it became apparent that miners who had
worked on augumene asteroids were succumbing to a debilitating
neurological disease characterized by exotic sediments forming in their
brain and neural pathways. Testing determined that the cause was
exposure to augumene dust, which was incredibly fine and could be
absorbed through the lungs, mucus membranes, minor cuts and scrapes, and
even somewhat through exposed skin.

Efforts to prevent the disease were incredibly difficult. The dust caked
protective equipment, requiring an extensive decontamination procedure
before it could be handled safely. The extra cost of the procedure and
discovery of pyroxes, an ore similar to augumene without the
debilitating effects, led to augumene mining becoming almost unknown.
Despite this, numerous attempts to safely and cheaply mine augumene have
been made, all without much success.

Even though its use is banned across much of [New Eden](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk),
augumene is sometimes mistaken for
regular pyroxes and has been used in construction projects as an
insulator and filler material. Exposure in these situations is
extreme dangerous, as proper protective gear is rarely utilized.

More recently, advances in medical science have allowed the disease to
be treated if caught early enough. The first two stages can be cleared
out with some measure of difficulty. The third stage can be treated to
prevent progression to the fourth stage, though it can never fully be
cured. The fourth stage is invariably fatal, though some treatments can
prolong life and reduce suffering.

Pathogenesis
------------

The disease is caused by the absorption of augumene dust into the
bloodstream. The dust is microscopic and can be absorbed in some amounts
through the skin, though it usually takes several years of exposure to
the skin to cause the disease. More dangerous is absorption through
lesions, the lungs, or the mucus membranes, through which augumene dust
easily passes.

Once in the bloodstream, the dust acts as an attractor to calcium,
phosphorous, iron and other heavy metals, and other elements. These
elements bind to the augumene dust and can form clumps or crystals,
which then collect along the walls of blood vessels and particularly
along neural pathways such as nerve clusters, the spinal column, and the
brain.

Symptoms
--------

Derj's disease has four stages, each progressively worse. The first
stage can linger for years, but progression from stage two to stage four
can be rapid.

### Stage one

Stage one Derj's disease is characterized by an elevated amount of heavy
particles in the bloodstream. Heavier elements tend to clump first,
meaning excess iron and trace amounts of lead, mercury, and other heavy
metals are the first to form sediments. Physical symptoms are minor at
this stage and frequently misdiagnosed. They often mimic iron
deficiency, as the clumping of iron removes it from use by the body. If
diagnosed as an iron deficiency, iron supplements can be prescribed,
which may speed progression of the disease.

### Stage two

Stage two continues the clumping of minerals in the body. By this stage,
lighter elements such as calcium and phosphorous begin clumping,
preventing them from being utilized by the body. This causes brittleness
in the bones and teeth, joint pain, and general irritability. At this
point, the sediments are beginning to stick to the walls of blood
vessels.

### Stage three

Stage three of the disease begins once sediments have begun to form
along neural pathways. The sediments form clusters and crystals along
nerves, the spine, and inside the brain. The deposits are relatively
minor at this stage, but are enough to cause chronic fatigue, headaches,
muscle spasms, phantom pain, minor hallucinations, impaired judgment,
and difficulty in controlling emotions. At this stage, deposits can form
in the brain which interfere with brain mapping, which almost certainly
causes corruption in brain scans and prevent successful cloning.

### Stage four

Stage four of the disease occurs when heavy sediments have formed in the
neural pathways, especially the brain. The sediments have formed
crystals, which can dislodge and cause lesions. Symptoms include intense
pain, amnesia, dementia, and internal bleeding. By this point, the
sediments have grown so large and pervasive that they are nearly
impossible to treat. The stage invariably leads to death.

Treatment
---------

Successful treatment of Derj's disease relies on an early diagnosis and
prompt treatment. Notably, the Minmatar have developed a serum against
the disease. The serum prevents augumene dust from forming sediments
in the bloodstream, allowing the body to slowly clear it out.
Unfortunately, the serum only works for Minmatar, as they have a genetic
immunity to the primary chemical agent that is not present in the other
races.

Stage one of the disease is rarely fatal and can be eliminated
completely through scrubbing of the bloodstream. This is done through
either injection of specialized nanobots or regular dialysis treatments.
Once the clumped particles are broken up, remaining augumene particles
are cleansed from the blood over the course of roughly a month.

The second stage is also curable, though it is more difficult and time
consuming. Breaking up of the particles must be done slowly and in a
carefully monitored environment, to insure that the nanobots do not
attack the patients bones or teeth. The process can be painful and often
some degradation of the bones occurs, requiring regular treatments until
the augumene particles are completely cleared from the body.

Once the disease has reached stage three, it cannot be cured, but it can
be managed and treated. Regular treatments are done to prevent
additional deposits from forming along the neural pathways, but existing
deposits are usually impossible to remove. Similar to treatment for
stage two, some damage to the bones and teeth can be expected, though
properly done, this is manageable for the patient.

At stage four, treatment usually moves toward prevention of pain rather
than attempts to prolong life or treat the disease itself. Some
extremely aggressive treatments can relieve some of the symptoms, but at
this point the deposits are so ingrained that they are impossible to
remove.

Diagnosis
---------

Derj's disease can be diagnosed with a simple blood test. The test
is usually only called for in at-risk cases, such as for miners and
construction workers who present symptoms, meaning many who are
accidentally exposed do not have the disease caught until stage two.

Name
----

The disease is popularly known as Derj's disease, after the Derj Orbital
Habitation. The station was constructed using augumene that had been
misidentified as pyroxes, leading to development of the disease in 87%
of the population. The case was reported heavily by [The Scope](jKoaYpOfHALTiwPIlGbE6),
particularly the failure of the population
to receive restitution in court due to safety waivers signed by the
inhabitants. This name is most commonly found in the
[Caldari State](7unGNsrMFwIWXMMbrM2jfy) and [Gallente Federation](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK).

Medically, the disease is called exotic tissue sedimentation syndrome.
This is the name most commonly used in medical literature and among
medical professionals. The [Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) also tend to use
this name when speaking about the disease casually.

Finally, the disease is sometimes called miner's disease. It was
popularly called this before the true causes of the condition were
known, as miners were the primary sufferers. This remains the most
common name for it among the [Minmatar](1rpu7pfwTPVznAczjw2pOp), many of
whom suffer from it due to unsafe working conditions or histories as
[slaves](slavery) in Amarr mining colonies.

See Also
--------
-   [Chronicle: Slow Disease](1xYkjfLitgVJ5d7jsOqBGL)
