# Face Swapping
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/face-swapping

**Face-swapping** (or sub-cellular transfer) is, as the name implies, a
medical process employed in plastic surgery whereby a person has their
face extensively altered. There are two varieties of this procedure, and
the law requires all patients be informed of them before the procedure.

Options
-------

### Molding

In the first, the new face is "invented" from scratch through
computer-generated imagery, after which the patient's face is molded to
match the new choice.

### Swapping

In the second option, pre-existing faces can be chosen from a vast
catalog of real faces, after which the face of the patient and the face
of the subject from the catalog are literally swapped, each being
integrated onto the other. This option is rarely applied, and the
subjects offering their faces for swap are understood to be
thrill-seekers.

Procedure
---------

The company that performs this service encourages it's employees to try
it, heavily discounted or free. It is a reversible process that can also
be used to rebuild an entire face if necessary- for a price. Almost
any face can be chosen as long as it is the same race, gender, and
blood-line as the patient. The patient undergoing the procedure is
drugged at the intake office and shipped to the lab unconscious where
their face is removed, flash-frozen, and stored. The new face is then
applied.

Illegal swapping
----------------

### Setup

In special, highly illegal cases, the subjects may not offer their faces
voluntarily. Some companies are known to maintain catalogs of prisoners
incarcerated in secret by each of the four empires. These prisons are
funded by both government bodies and private interests, and the people
in them are there for life. Those who are forced to undergo face surgery
are given masks of various types, and are shunned by other prisoners.

### Types of prisons

#### Amarr

In the prisons in [Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) space, these people are
given expressionless masks of chrome. Oval with horizontal slits for
eyes, nose, and mouth, they shine with a darkly golden-sheen from the
electric lamps.

#### Gallente

In [Gallente](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK) space the masks are plaster and are
blackened with soot, sweat and blood. They are often set unevenly with
bumps, ridges and sharp edges. The Gallente prisoners harvest narcotics
grown in man-made and natural caves converted to greenhouses. The lights
in them switch from natural to halogen to show the change of day to
night. The air is humid and non-masked prisoners are issued several dry
cloths a day to keep the sweat off their face. The prisoners do not
touch the plants as most of them require processing, but the masked ones
are given more lee-way and chew the razor-sharp leaves of one plant
incessantly. It turns their saliva brown.

#### Caldari

In [Caldari](7unGNsrMFwIWXMMbrM2jfy) space, the prisoners are segregated by
gender and are employed in sweatshops. Their masks are oval and
bone-white, but fashioned into the shape of a face, the same face. All
Caldari masks have the same high cheekbones, the same curve of the
eyebrows, and the same thin lips with no hole for the mouth.

#### Minmatar

In [Minmatar](1rpu7pfwTPVznAczjw2pOp) space the prisoners are employed in
mines and the masked ones wear a mask of metal with hinges for the jaw
and moveable eyelids.

See Also
--------
-   [Chronicle: A Beautiful Face (Part 1)](2i95oZxuXIPj31w7VvKIye)
-   [Chronicle: A Beautiful Face (Part 2)](b1xq5NlRU02c7XjANGBPT)
