# Lirsautton
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/lirsautton

The **Lirsautton** solar system in the
Everyshore region is the home of the
[Jin-Mei](6SFvK45QIlCCCoNODY3gUB) nation and people, and the capital of
its respective Assembly territory. Its physical distance to
Luminaire of less than 2 lightyears, the closest
of any major [Federation](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK) member-state, has led to
Lirsautton wielding an extremely strong level of influence on Gallente
affairs in all areas, to a disproportionate extent considering the
relatively short amount of time since first contact. The inverse also
applies, with Gallente cultural and corporate influence being stronger
here than in any other Federal home system. As a result, Lirsautton is a
powerhouse of economic and cultural activity moreso than the relatively
distant [Intaki](5DUTZnySsYNmzbNQVPGXZn) and [Mannar](4BaMCkOwYaPpd4ZMtEfEY) home
systems, with the gargantuan Quafe Corporation being
headquartered here. It is the only Federation home system besides
Luminaire that holds a high-security status from
[CONCORD](5DPzMesjfj3XKshPWBUPWt), reflecting both its nature as one of the
most prosperous systems in the Federation, and its relative apathy
towards Gallente influence.

History
-------

Lirsautton was originally called Mei-ha. Upon joining the Federation
shortly before contact with the [Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo), the
Jin-Mei voluntarily renamed the system and its planets to the modern
Gallente names as a show of support and solidarity with the Federation.

### Pre-history

It remains extremely unclear how the Lirsautton system was first
settled, with minimal historical and archaeological data available. Many
academics suspect that the Jin-Mei were an offshoot of the Yan Jung nation, citing not only linguistic
similarities but the close distance of just over 4 lightyears from
Lirsautton to Deltole, the suspected home system of the Yan Jung.
However, like most information from this time period, very little has
been deemed as concrete fact by historians. The system is devoid of any
ancient ruins or relics, other than early modern remnants of the Jin-Mei
space program.

### Jin-Mei Exploration & Colonization

The Jin-Mei people originated from the fifth planet of Lirsautton, known
as Chandeille or Tei-Su. After centuries of war between various
factions, the Jin-Mei became the dominant faction on Lirsautton V after
establishing their extremely organized caste system and eliminating all
other ethnic groups on the world (the latter of which resulting in the
low genetic diversity of the Jin-Mei). The regimented and disciplined
nature of the Jin-Mei caste system threw them into the industrial and
post-industrial eras faster than many other races. They soon began
exploring and colonizing the inner solar system, establishing a
waystation colony on Chandeille's moon of Yue-Xi.

While the Jin-Mei achieved space flight rather early, a variety of
factors kept them from expanding much. The Sang Do overlords feared that
a rapid expansion would destabilize the established order. As a result,
there was no inclination at all to leave their home system, despite
having discovered several inoperable stargates at the very edges of
Lirsautton. The third planet, Hulang or Chakaux, was settled en masse,
however, and is considered the second homeworld to many Jin-Mei.

### Gallente First Contact & Ascension

A small Mannar exploratory expedition eventually 'discovered' the system
during the Federation's widespread colonization and development of
Everyshore. The expedition was investigating magnetometric signatures
that were originating from Lirsautton, having recovered an early Jin-Mei
probe in a nearby system. Upon entering the system, the Mannar scouts
entered a standoff with Jin-Mei warships. However, the equal combat
capabilities of the Gallente-designed civilian scout vessels and the
Jin-Mei military cruisers meant the situation was
rapidly defused. Initially, it was the Mannar government that took to
bringing the technology and space infrastructure of the Jin-Mei in line
with the rest of the nation, which went a long way to forging strong
relations between the two people. The contemporary Hawk voter bloc,
composed primarily of those with Mannar and Jin-Mei backgrounds, is an
example of this relationship.

Over time, however, the proximity of Lirsautton to Luminaire meant that
the Gallente soon became the dominant force amongst the Jin-Mei. The
Gallente were surprised at finding another space-faring civilization so
close to home, and many wondered why the Jin-Mei were not encountered
earlier. They were even more surprised at the Jin-Mei's willingness to
forge an alliance, who were reaping the benefits of trading agricultural
products with the Gallente.

In 23174 AD, the Jin-Mei nation signed the Federal Charter, and became
the latest addition to the Federation. This came after an audacious
request for their home constellation to be granted to them as their
sovereign territory. This agreement came with the clause that the
Jin-Mei would abolish their caste system within a period of fifty years.
Ultimately, this was not enforced because of the cultural and political
ramifications, and the Jin-Mei were later granted the right to
opt-out of Federal laws that compromised the existence of their caste
system.

### Modern Day

Today, Lirsautton is a hub of Gallente business and culture. Quafe
operate countless subsidiaries in the system, the largest of which is
the Garoun Investment Bank that is
also headquartered here. GIB's habit of investing in startup companies
focused around hi-tech and entertainment ventures has boosted these
respective sectors within Lirsautton. Music is particularly popular,
with Egonics capitalizing on the
opportunities here. While the caste system struggles to officially
operate in the space economy of Lirsautton (often clashing with Federal
labour and non-discrimination laws), it still nonetheless exists
planetside in its fullest. This has caused conflicts with Gallente
megacorporations who attempt to operate by Federal law within Jin-Mei
jurisdictions, disrupting established traditions and practices.

A notable example of the above was in YC110,
where FedMart attempted to approach farmers of the
Jin-Mei lower caste (the Jing Ko) directly to negotiate for their
produce, disrupting the social order by not approaching the two higher
castes first (the Saan Go and Sang Do respectively, both of whom are
responsible for administering trade affairs). FedMart cited that
Federal law guarantees commercial freedom and unobstructed trade, while
the Lirsautton Agricultural Commission stated their discontent with
FedMart's advances, which had caused many Sang Do landowners threatening
to evict tenants. The Federal Administration ultimately did not
intervene in this case, deferring the matter to Jin-Mei autonomous
authorities. The episode rapidly snowballed, with popular opinion
mobilizing against FedMart, forcing them to comply to Jin-Mei customs by
approaching the middle man first. Economic experts agreed that FedMart
had attempted to approach the Jing Ko to avoid the taxes and tariffs
imposed by the Jin-Mei overlords, thus maximizing profit potential. Not
being able to do so, however, the prices of Jin-Mei agricultural goods
being sold by FedMart subsequently rose both inside and outside the
Federation.

Sun
---

Still known as "Mei-ha", Lirsautton's small yellow star is mostly
unremarkable. Approaching the end of its main sequence life, its
frequent solar flares is mitigated by its cooler-than-average
temperatures. Along with being a rather small sun, Lirsautton's lifezone
is more generous than in other systems.

Inner Planets
-------------

### Lirsautton I

This moonless, barren planet has an orbit radius of 0.248 AU and a very
short orbital period. While host to some limited forms of microbial
life, the planet's proximity to the star make it extremely vulnerable to
solar flares. A few subterranean settlements exist, mostly for mining
purposes. As the Jin-Mei are not experienced in operating large
habitations in non-temperate environments to a self-sustaining level,
these settlements are extraplanetary colonies under the domains of Sang
Do overlords from the homeworlds.

CreoDron has anchored a station in orbit that
primarily meets hi-tech and automation demands in the Lirsautton space
industry, purchasing minerals and ore from the planet below.

### Lirsautton II

Being minimally distant from the first planet, Lirsautton II is also
highly affected by solar flares. This barren planet is host to microbial
life that prove highly toxic to humans while showing a strong resistance
to decontamination methods. For this reason, this planet has not been as
fully explored as others in the system, despite the fact that some
theorize there may be large amounts of water beneath its solid outer
crust.

### Chakaux (Lirsautton III)

Lirsautton III, also known as Chakaux or Hulang, was the first and only
additional planet settled by the Jin-Mei prior to their joining the
Federation. Though close to the sun, the frequent solar flares burn off
any cloud layers which may have held in heat. Along with the cool
planetary core, the temperatures have been kept far below the unbearable
mark, and has prevented the large oceans from evaporating. The Jin-Mei
have settled this planet extensively, which they still call Hulang
locally, and many consider it to be more their homeworld than
Chandeille. As a maritime world with a mountainous terrain across the
little land available, the Jin-Mei were forced to construct vertical
urban conglomerations by the coastlines and arcologies in the deserts,
something they did not have much experience with.

The territories of Chakaux were previously extraplanetary colonies under
the authority of Sang Do lords from the homeworld. However, not a
century after it was first settled, the local Saan Go administrators led
a rebellion and established their own domains as overlords. Though this
violated the tenets of the caste system in terms of there being no caste
mobility, it has been many generations since the uprising and this
cultural violation has mostly fallen out of memory.

Lirsautton III has a single, unremarkable moon called Ruxin that
completes a full orbit in 1.2 days. A lunar defense network is hosted
here.

Medial Planets
--------------

### Lirsautton IV

This barren world was the first planet explored by the Jin-Mei, merely
fifty years after their first manned mission had landed on their own
moon. It was thought that despite the planet's lack of water and thin
atmosphere, its average annual temperature of 305.54 K, or 32.39
celsius, and the planet's proximity to Chandeille at only .3 AU, would
make it a prime candidate for colonization. Early exploratory missions
however discovered that without water or a thinner atmosphere, the
planet's temperature fluctuations were extreme. At the equator for
example, the average daytime temperature is 314.15 K, or 41 Celsius,
while the average night time temperature is 241.15 K, or -32 Celsius. In
addition, its highly eccentric orbit kept launch windows exceptionally
narrow. Finding nothing of value on the planet, it would be ignored
until well after the Jin-Mei joined the Federation.

The lone moon of Lirsautton IV is home to the Garoun Investment Bank
headquarters.

### Chandeille (Lirsautton V)

Lirsautton V is the homeworld of the Jin-Mei. Still called Tei-Su
locally, the Gallente name Chandeille was adopted for general use as a
show of commitment upon joining the Federation. Continental in nature,
with a healthy balance between lush land and warm seas, the Jin-Mei were
able to prosper amongst the extremely comfortable ecology. With a medial
distance from the sun, and a full year that allows maximum use of each
season, the Jin-Mei have created an unrivaled agricultural industry,
establishing themselves as master farmers across the Federation. The
planet is covered with exotic vegetation and rich jungle, along with a
variety of unique wildlife that has spawned a high demand for Jin-Mei
foodstuffs amongst the adventurously-minded Gallente.

Polar exploration and settlement yielded many technological
breakthroughs that enabled the Jin-Mei to rapidly advance to space
exploration despite the rather stilting nature of their class system.
The continental steppes of Chandeille provided all the mineral
requirements for the demands of these advances, but they are also home
to various small tribes that were never integrated into the Jin-Mei
caste system. The cities of Chandeille are tactfully located on the
grasslands or coasts where their urban and industrial nature will not
disturb the environment, though some advanced conglomerations have been
built within the jungle, creating a symbiotic relationship with it. The
Jin-Mei are fully aware of the advantage their wield economically thanks
to their agricultural industry, and thus refrain from damaging the
natural environment where it would threaten their market dominance.

The planet is orbited by an asteroid belt, and the moon of Yue-Xi, where
the first lunar colonies have grown into their own autonomous domains.

### Lirsautton VI

This planet was the subject of an early Jin-Mei colonization attempt
that ended in disaster. The first of three crews scheduled to arrive did
so without incident, and began constructing the first of what would be
many terraforming settlements. The second, larger ship arrived on
schedule, but suffered a booster malfunction in one of its landing
thrusters. The ship crashed into the settlement and those not killed
instantly soon perished from their injuries inflicted by the devastation
of the fledgling settlement. The third ship was ordered to turn around
and return to Chandeille.

The incident put Jin-Mei space exploration on hold for decades. Though
the Federation assisted in completing the terraforming process,
Lirsautton VI had since become somewhat of a cursed world in Jin-Mei
culture, with its benign climate only adding to its perception. No Sang
Do overlords ever settled the world. Instead, the planet is home to
various exiles who were ejected for some reason or another from the rest
of the nation. They have banded into tribes and have settled far and
wide, disconnected and dispersed from one another. The Jin-Mei system
authorities have permitted some minor Federal corporations to establish
limited mining operations for their own benefit, as long as they are
settled as far as possible from the settlements of these tribes. The few
facilities and spaceports of these companies have become almost
mythological to the tribespeople, who warn their children of these metal
beasts and the "evil ones" found in the heavens beyond. Planetary
industry run by [capsuleers](15umOALoFBZxVS2oaggvJQ) has only added to
these folkloric tales further.

The planet has a single asteroid belt, and a single lunar body orbiting
it. The moon remains uncolonized.

### Lirsautton VII

This barren and extremely cold planet is host to some simple forms of
life. It is otherwise unremarkable in every way, and saw absolutely no
colonization. Quafe thus saw fit to hold their headquarters and flagship
manufactory here, knowing that their presence in orbit of this unsettled
world would not infringe on Jin-Mei sovereignty, while still being able
to make full use of the low level of labor regulation in Lirsautton.

Outer Planets
-------------

### Lirsautton VIII

Lirsautton VIII is an oceanic planet that was settled in the past
half-century, using Gallente expertise in underwater city construction.
The temperature of the ocean is relatively warm thanks to its thickness
trapping in heat from the sun, and such there is an abundance of natural
life present. Jin-Mei nuyin (royal technicians to the Sang Do) decided
to migrate choice species from Chandeille to the world to coexist with
native life, and as a result the deep seas of Lirsautton VIII are rich
with millions of different forms of life. Applying their expertise in
land-based agriculture, the Jin-Mei have shaped Lirsautton VIII to
become an important source of aquaculture in the Federation. Domed
[underwater cities](iPOJ3rI5MCUlvDiZDb65V) can be found
constructed in many of the large craters that dot the ocean floor, each
under the rule of a Sang Do overlord.

### Lirsautton IX

This planet is one of the two worlds that make up the "Twin Heavens", a
pair of ringed gas planets with the same atmospheric composition and a
near-identical external appearance. Lirsautton IX is the larger in the
pairing, technically classified as a gas giant. The Federal
Administration erected a pair of embassies here not long after first
contact, today acting as the main bureaucratic apparatus that connects
Lirsautton to the rest of the Federation. Lirsautton IX has 19 moons,
most of which are owned by minor Sang Do lords who oversee mining
colonies and gas-harvesting facilities in the upper atmosphere.

### Lirsautton X

Lirsautton X is the outermost gas planet in the "Twin Heavens" pairing.
An order of magnitude smaller than its inner cousin, and therefore not
large enough to be classified as a gas giant, the Jin-Mei were
originally confused by the matching appearances of the ninth and tenth
planets, believing them to be the same celestial body. The first deep
space probes revealed the planets to be two separate worlds, and thus
the name "Twin Heavens" was granted. With fewer moons making real estate
an unresolved premium, the planet was mostly ignored by the Jin-Mei.
Instead, several tourist agencies acquired permission to erect arcology
stations in and around the ring system, as well as floating resorts in
the planet's upper atmosphere. Egonics Inc. (who are partially owned by
Quafe) moved in and purchased several of these tourist agencies, before
establishing their own presence in orbit of one of Lirsautton X's moons.
The Egonics station rapidly became the hub of both Jin-Mei classical and
popular music, which has enjoyed tremendous success throughout the
Federation and beyond.

### Lirsautton XI

Being over 27 AUs from the sun, the relatively remote gas planet of
Lirsautton XI was completely ignored by the Jin-Mei until after they
joined the Federation. Having two stargates in its orbit, with a third
not far from its stellar orbit path, its moons were subsequently
developed as trading outposts and waystations for the vast amount of
commercial vessels that began flooding into Lirsautton not long after
Gallente first contact. Lirsautton XI still serves this purpose into the
modern era.

See Also
--------
- [Adakul](1QKGVCG3SPqc6sCRnnw9Vp)
- [Jin-Mei Masked Opera](Oxo9HvSufGkj1EaDzoPBJ)
-   [Gallente Federation](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK)
-   [Jin-Mei](6SFvK45QIlCCCoNODY3gUB)
