# Valklears
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/valklears

The **Valklears** are an elite fighting force in the
[Minmatar](1rpu7pfwTPVznAczjw2pOp) military. They originated during the
[Minmatar Rebellion](25a8Ts7aOIqgem8gcsm71N).

Origins
-------

In the great war for liberation the Minmatar tribes, finding themselves
desperately lacking able-bodied men. They began pressing criminals into
service, creating soldiers from their most dangerous criminals - their
thieves, schemers, and murderers. The resulting force, dubbed the
Valklears, won many victories and became notorious for their
backgrounds. Though the leaders of the new Republic wanted to disband
it, the military leaders objected and the program was kept. It has
proven remarkably successful and continues to this day.

Operation
---------

### Recruiting

One would have to be mad to join in a Valklear unit's fifteen-year tour
of duty, and among the criminal element, the rivers of madness run deep
indeed.

Recruiters are sent among the various tribal courts to seek out
potential recruits, who are selected based on skills, instinct, and
perceived potential. Recruits are given the option of remaining in
prison or joining the Valklears; since most of them are facing execution
or life sentences, most accept.

### Training

Through red tape the recruits are forcibly lost in the prison system,
with falsification of documents that indicate them either as having
transferred to a high-security prisons, or simply executed. Either way,
they simply vanish from the system. They are then put through a
grueling, year-long training regime designed, quite simply, to break
them. Those who fail are washed out and put back into prison with
extended sentences; those who survive join the Valklears.

Active service and post-service
-------------------------------

Recruits serve a term based on the length of their sentences or fifteen
years, whichever lasts the longest. Once they finish their term, they
are provided with new identities and set free. Many transfer to standard
branches of the Minmatar military, where their past is hidden.

Many high-ranking officials in the [Republic Fleet](2c4ZwKPnuW6mYkLJ2dGh94) are former Valklears. Their true
background is hidden from the public and few are aware the armed forces
are run by former criminals.

See Also
--------
-   [Minmatar Republic](1rpu7pfwTPVznAczjw2pOp)
-   [Chronicle: Valklears](fKK0QvMe8phSpa0HRvhtn)
