# Hovercars
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/hovercars

**Hovercars** are a type of [planetary vehicle](7lNny8Tg3JKkvqdX2g071T)
that utilize a variety of
technologies to float gently above the surface. They are most common in
well-off areas of [New Eden](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk), such as
within the core worlds of the [Gallente Federation](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK)
or among the [Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) [nobility](dO9vxs4a40LrzJyoq2L8v),
but are also found throughout the cluster. Because they do not directly
touch the ground, they are capable of smooth travel over a variety of
terrains.

History
-------

Hover vehicles have been in existence for centuries. The simplest
vehicles utilize a cushion of slow-moving, high-pressure air which is
ejected against the surface below and contained beneath a skirt. These
vehicles are typically driven by large fans, or impellers, which provide
the air cushion, and additional engines which provide forward thrust.
These hovercraft had a variety of applications, typically as transports
and emergency vehicles over unfavorable terrain.

However, these air-cushioned hovercraft were generally more difficult to
steer, much louder, and more costly than traditional wheeled transports,
limiting their use to enthusiasts and specialized fields. It was not
until the development of additional hover technologies that hovercars
became feasible as a primary personal transportation device.

The first great breakthrough was the creation of magnetic levitation
that did not require extensive rail systems. While maglev technology had
been in use for decades for mass transit, the reliance on rails to
provide suspension made it unfeasible for personal use. However, with
the development of self-contained maglev technology, personal hovercars
became a reality. These early hovercars had high energy requirements,
but possessed tight controls, were reliable, and delivered exceedingly
smooth rides.

The discovery of gravity-manipulation introduced an additional method of
propulsion and suspension, but did not change the overall design of
hovercars by much. It was, however, somewhat safer than maglev
hovercars, as they utilized no charged electromagnetic lifters,
eliminating the risk of fatal shocks. Regardless, most modern hovercars
continue to utilize maglev technology, as it has been developed to such
an extent that the safety risks are barely relevant.

Design
------

Hovercars have a variety of body designs, though the most popular look
very similar to wheelless automobiles. Popular variations include
separate compartments for passengers and drivers, extra cargo space, or
bodies stylized to look similar to planes or even models of spaceship.

The lifters typically sit beneath the body, regardless of if the design
is maglev or anti-gravity. These lifters produce repulsive force with
the ground, lifting the vehicle a set height off the ground. The height
is typically about a half-meter, which is enough to clear most obstacles
while enabling passengers to enter and exit while the vehicle is still
in operation. The levitation height can be adjusted, though local
restrictions usually restrict vehicles from legally flying too high or
too low. Additionally, most civilian vehicles do not possess the power
output to hover more than a few meters off the ground.

When deactivated, hovercars possess safety devices that slowly lower
them to the ground. Once touched down, hovercars utilize some sort of
suspension device to keep the lifters and undercarriage from scraping
the ground. Some utilize retractable legs, while others come equipped
with bumpers made of rubber or some other rugged padding.

Some hovercars are hybrid models, equipped with wheels or treads that
can retract when the vehicle is levitating. These hybrids are not
common, as the wheels rarely offer any advantage over the lifters. Most
typically, they are used by wheeled-vehicle enthusiasts who wish to
retain the advantages of lifters, or criminals who wish to retain
operation of their vehicles when magnetic or gravimetric disruptors are
deployed.

See Also
--------
-   [Chronicle: The Resurrection Men](4vhKlx6P0Ci86mFFAW476r)
