# Demographics of the Amarr Empire
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/demographics-of-the-amarr-empire

The **Amarr Empire is the most populous sovereign entity in New Eden**, currently estimated to make up roughly 25% of the cluster's population, slightly ahead of the [Gallente Federation](7sZIo8fMLyDFrC3YvT5d1q). The population is fairly spread out, with large numbers inhabiting a diverse array of planets, moons, stations, orbital habitats, and [asteroid colonies](6NQhah6uyVb1Bzg0ifUe5N) in the service of local [Holders](dO9vxs4a40LrzJyoq2L8v) and other overseers. The [Empire](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) is very ethnically diverse, contrary to many preconceptions, with large number of [Minmatar](1rpu7pfwTPVznAczjw2pOp) and smaller populations of Gallente and [Caldari](7unGNsrMFwIWXMMbrM2jfy) calling it home.

## History
The Amarr Empire started as a very ethnically homogenous nation, with the entirety of its inhabitants of the background now known as the [True Amarr](2DkiJVfiL1RYP5y7AJGSNN). This situation persisted for roughly 3500 years, until the [Udorians](723tMHRDvyldo15RMLMuqh) landed on Amarr Island in 20022 AD. The Amarr soon launched the [Reclaiming](70QLNGRwCwHUgmcjTmuhsA) and began the systematic conquest of the Udorians. During this time, the Amarr also encountered the [Khanid](1IRIdXfOZrfl5BuFuabOh6) peoples and absorbed them into the Empire.By 20544 AD, the Empire had conquered the entirety of its [homeworld](bHRN1rfoBSiLCOFANsGI4), enslaving the vast majority of the non-Amarr and non-Khanid population.

Over time, those peoples enslaved by the Amarr began earning or were granted their freedom, becoming proper citizens of the Empire. They gradually spread through the Empire, forming their own ethnic communities and mingling with the general population. In the case of the Udorians, over thousands of years, the mingling with the True Amarr ended the ethnicity as a proper separate bloodline. 

In 21423 AD, the Amarr encountered the [Ealur](6TgmS6RKjOYM1Id08VBZzk), a primitive race living on a lush planet. The Empire quickly Reclaimed them and used them to replenish their dwindling slave stocks. Due to a variety of circumstances, few Ealur ever became free members of the Empire's society. Over the following centuries, the Amarr encountered a few other small pockets of humanity, though they were of such small numbers that subsequent intermingling with other slaves eliminated their bloodlines almost entirely.

The [Moral Reforms](48nuiRGJ4i8BwACDI9a58u), a massive civil war between the Emperor and the [Council of Apostles](nTZLcvZprqLLUiGIaVQu7), occurred between 21870 AD and 21930 AD, resulting in a massive loss of life and population in the Empire. As much as 5% of the population was killed due to the war, either directly in the fighting, from famine related to food shortages caused by bombardment or blockade, or during the harsh reconstruction that followed. Slave populations particularly took a hard hit, as they were worked severely in order to rebuild from the widespread destruction.

The Empire eventually discovered another large population, the [Ni-Kunni](5zoewV2VJJnYgvWj0Khn1K), in 22103 AD. They were quickly conquered and enslaved. Thanks to the temperament of the Ni-Kunni, as well as subsequent developments in the Reclaiming, they did not remain in bondage for long. Today most Ni-Kunni in the Empire are free.

Shortly after in 22355 AD, the Empire encountered the Minmatar. Though not as technologically advanced as the Amarr, the Minmatar were capable of space flight and were thus subject to a less immediate Reclaiming, with only a few minor raids taking place in secret and isolation until 22480 AD. In that year, [Emperor](3Akx6UWUOJM90aQeaPgDtJ) [Damius III](4YXvIhUK7GjrXhK4dZ5AOM) ordered a massive invasion which took billions of Minmatar as slaves. The Empire subsequently began a systematic conquest of the Minmatar which reduced them to little more than a number of scattered holdouts over the intervening centuries.

In 23041 AD, the [Khanid Family](1dQRsN9IAaCTVkatH4haam) rebelled against the Empire and declared independence, following the succession of [Heideran VII](4Olxc4nxWd7y1mjFPhvHnV) to the Imperial Throne. As the [Khanid heir](5HlA8KgFOuLy4jTf3t54xf) was the head of the [Amarr Navy](3PKvXZS0iHKIgAmO9np74g), the Empire was unable to properly respond to the rebellion and lost much of its Khanid population, along with a number of True Amarr and slaves under the purview of the family. This resulted in the Empire losing roughly 1/6th of its total population, slaves included.

This situation continued until 23216 AD, when the [Minmatar rebelled](25a8Ts7aOIqgem8gcsm71N) en masse across the Empire. This rebellion led to another large loss of life in the Empire, with millions being killed in the fighting. When the rebellion finally came to an end by the end of the year, over two-thirds of the Empire's Minmatar slaves had been freed.

Following the losses in the Minmatar Rebellion, and the embarrassing loss in the [Amarr-Jove War](67yx5qBIGDtALlxjRjbwZr), the Empire adopted a much more conciliatory and peaceful stance toward the rest of the cluster. It slowly began to open its borders to trade with the Caldari State and Gallente Federation and sent missionaries to the other empires. This served to bring a slow trickle of foreign blood into the Empire, as traders and religious converts began to settle in Imperial borders and, eventually, earned citizenship. Additionally, a small number of foreign criminals captured by the Empire were pressed into slavery as well, though this was never a large portion of their population.

The most recent, significant change in the Empire's demographics came late in [YC110](4s7KrRaqQANTatQhzlSaRi), when Empress [Jamyl I](6jGpYH3ai8pLLJboHVuA3L) made a sweeping decree freeing any Minmatar slave of 9th or higher generation, as well as those working in religious or academic fields. Experts estimated between eight to ten percent of the Empire's slave stock were affected by the emancipation. A significant portion emigrated to the Minmatar Republic, though others chose to remain in the Amarr Empire and become full-fledged citizens. 

## Ethnicities
Contrary to popular belief, the Amarr Empire is ethnically diverse, with significant populations of nearly every bloodline known to New Eden. It is generally considered to be second only to the Gallente Federation in absolute diversity, though many critics of the Empire discount its slave populations in making determinations, which often pushes it below the Minmatar Republic. Despite this, the Empire is dominated by the True Amarr bloodline, with its largest minorities (including slaves) being [Brutor](5xBrtZyeYfTxWkZTO1o5zg), [Sebiestor](1fNour0sFTIcCFRVQM2pro), Khanid, [Vherokior](6VDPzsKX9TVbVtXEwjj0RB), and Ni-Kunni, in that order.

### True Amarr
True Amarr are legally defined by the Empire as any individual of non-Khanid ancestry who can trace their genealogical record to pre-spaceflight Amarr Prime. This definition is not accepted by some more conservative members of the Empire's nobility, particularly as it pertains to those who have Udorian ancestry. However, according to geneticists and sociologists, the Udorian bloodline has intermingled so heavily with the "proper" True Amarr that it can no longer be considered separate. Estimates range as widely as between 25% to 75% of the True Amarr population as having at least one Udorian ancestor, though no officially sanctioned study has been done to prove any numbers. Few True Amarr self-identify as Udorian, with the label being most often applied as a form of political attack.

The True Amarr are the largest of the bloodlines in the Empire, though they have not been a majority in many centuries. In general, the True Amarr are the most well-off members of Imperial society and make up a disproportionate percentage of the Empire's nobility and wealthy merchant class. All members of the [Amarr royalty](54zoGW31RF0k0QF9KkOBjh) are of True Amarr descent, though the [Tash-Murkon Family](4t1KEOTA8LvYIHDcOtIPAb) is famously descended from Udorians and are often denigrated by conservatives because of it.

Demographic trends in the Empire show that the prominence of the True Amarr is slowly declining over the past thousand years, particularly over the most recent two centuries. If current trends continue, experts estimate the True Amarr will be surpassed by the Brutor as the largest ethnicity within a thousand years.

### Khanid
The Khanid are the second largest free bloodline in the Empire, behind only the True Amarr, and are the fourth largest percentage of the total population. Prior to the Khanid rebellion, a much larger population of Khanid lived in the Empire. However, the large majority of Khanid families remained under the aegis to the Khanid Family and had relocated to Khanid space prior to the rebellion. After the rebellion, these families threw their support behind their new king. The descendants of those who remained make up most of the current Imperial population, though with the softening relation with the Kingdom, more have begun immigrating back to reclaim ancestral holdings.

Aside from the True Amarr, the Khanid are the most well-off of any of the bloodlines in the Empire. They hold a significant number of titles of nobility and are generally highly regarded in whatever line of work they undertake. A large number are high-ranking members of the Imperial Armed Forces, while many of Khanid priests are renowned for their zealotry. Among all the ethnicities in New Eden, the Khanid alone can claim virtual equality with the True Amarr, lacking only a royal family to solidify that position.

An insignificant number of Khanid are enslaved; those who are tend to be criminals rather than descendants of other slaves.

### Ni-Kunni
The Ni-Kunni are known for having escaped slavery faster than any of the other bloodlines (as the majority of Khanid were never enslaved). Despite this, they lag behind the three Minmatar bloodlines in total population. However, when only counting freemen, they are the third largest ethnicity in the Empire. 

The Ni-Kunni occupy a middle ground in Amarr society. They only claim a few small families as Holders, but they have a very large number of wealthy merchants and businessmen among them, giving them more influence than their size would suggest. Ni-Kunni businesses flourish in many areas of the Empire and several industries run on the backbone of Ni-Kunni ingenuity and acumen. However, many Ni-Kunni remain poor and live around the poverty line.

Only small numbers of Ni-Kunni remain enslaved; some can trace their lineage back to the original slaves taken from [Mishi IV](7Bwu0uJL7wrbt0fUkszc0V), but most are criminals who have been enslaved as punishment.

### Ammatar/Nefantar
Large numbers of the [Nefantar](1lfEcB4SdrV3EJIrmYWOK2) tribe avoided enslavement by collaborating with the Amarr Empire during the early days of the conquest. They eventually were given their own section of space to govern on behalf of the Empire, which later became known as the [Ammatar Mandate](4BV4ldw5RdVB4FxKctn4J6). The majority of Ammatar continue to live in the Mandate, but a sizable population has moved to the Empire itself, where they remain relatively free. They exist in lesser numbers than the three "main" bloodlines of the Empire, but there are more free Ammatar than there are any of the other Minmatar tribes.

Depending on who is asked, the Ammatar are either worse or better off than the Ni-Kunni. They tend to be better off than the Ni-Kunni financially thanks to nominal autonomy of the Mandate. However, many Amarr view the Ammatar with jealousy and suspicion, especially following the widespread defections following the Elder Invasion.

A small number of Nefantar remain enslaved by the Empire. These slaves are not considered "Ammatar" by either the Empire or the Ammatar themselves. On the occasions when they are freed, they often have extreme difficulties as they face intense discrimination.

### Brutor
The largest of the Minmatar bloodlines in the Empire, the Brutor are also the second most populous bloodline. Massive numbers of Brutor slaves were brought into the Empire during the earliest years of the Minmatar conquest, meaning they were most quickly subjected to breeding programs designed to increase their numbers. Brutor slaves are favored for incredibly strenuous work, as they have a reputation for being hearty, hard workers.

The majority of Brutor in the Empire remain enslaved and make up the largest percentage of the Empire's slaves. However, a large number of free Brutor live in the Empire as well, though they are only the fifth most populous free bloodline. Free Brutor, as with most free Minmatar living in the Empire, are among the poorest groups in New Eden. The majority work menial jobs, particularly related to manual labor.

### Sebiestor
Behind the Brutor, the Sebiestor are the second most popular slave ethnicity and the third largest ethnicity in the Empire. Though not considered to have the strength or endurance of the Brutor, the Amarr viewed the Sebiestor as being far more intelligent and personable, and thus put them to work on tasks such as engineering and service. Sebiestor still make up large portions of the enslaved house staff for many Holders. 

Like the Brutor, most Sebiestor remain enslaved, but despite being less numerous, similar numbers have been granted their freedom. The Amarr credit this to the more docile nature of the Sebiestor. The tribe has had somewhat greater luck in integrating with Amarr society as well and free Sebiestor find themselves slightly better off as a result. The majority still live in poverty, but they often have a few less negative stereotypes working against them.

### Vherokior
The Amarr initially regarded the Vherokior with contempt and suspicion given their role as the traditional shamans of the Minmatar religions. For this reason, they were less interested in utilizing them as slaves, fearing they would incite discontent and retard the spiritual growth of other slaves, giving them less numbers than the Sebiestor. Eventually, however, they gained the reputation as having a head for business and numbers, and thus began to be grow as clerical slaves. Amusingly, some Holders also employed their Vherokior slaves in their traditional tribal role of teaching religion, albeit the Amarr one, making the Vherokior popular clerical slaves in both senses of the word.

Of the free Minmatar bloodlines, the Vherokior are the best well-off within the Empire, but still in smaller numbers than the Brutor or Sebiestor. Vherokior are generally considered somewhat below the Ni-Kunni on the social ladder of the Empire and fewer stereotypes exist against them than the other Minmatar bloodlines. Many join the priesthood and act as missionaries.

### Krusual
The [Krusual](7KI9OEieV9sdjksayCyoGk) were one of the most difficult tribes for the Amarr to enslave and their lower numbers in the Empire reflect this fact. Unlike the similarly difficult Brutor, the Krusual were not viewed as having any exceptional qualities aside from viciousness. As such, many of those who were enslaved were worked to the breaking point and cast aside by their Holders. In the present day, a fair number remain enslaved, but less so than many of the other Minmatar tribes.

Free Krusual in the Empire are relatively rare, at a smaller percentage compared to their enslaved numbers than the other Minmatar tribes. Those who do are heavily discriminated against and are often worse off than the Brutor, as Krusuals tend to be assumed to be violent and unruly and unsuitable for most civilized work.

### Shrouded
The Amarr use the term "shrouded" to refer to any slave who has extremely mixed or indeterminate parentage, particularly those who come from smaller races enslaved and assimilated into other populations. The official definition is any slave recorded as having two shrouded parents; one whose records indicate less than 25% of any one notionally "pure" bloodline; or one where the records do not permit a determination to be made.

Shrouded slaves are somewhat less populous than Vherokiors, making up the 4th largest group of slaves in the Empire. A very small number of shrouded slaves have been freed and they do not make up a statistically significant part of the Empire's free population. In general, the lack of parentage records implied by shrouded status goes hand-in-hand with a lack of the records or documentation typically used to justify and file manumission with the religious courts.

### Other Slaves
Several other small minorities make up the remainder of the Empire's slave stock. These include the Ealur, [Thukker](3uoxvtJY1Z30BoVwuJLj2z), mixed [Starkmanir](1L5eoorvzFUylWwag0xeQw), and criminals of other races. Of the groups, the Ealur are the largest, forming a significant portion of the Empire's slaves. Due to a variety of old prejudices, most remain enslaved, despite having been slaves longer than any other group in the Empire.

The Thukker have always been nomadic and were better able to evacuate the Minmatar homeworlds following the Amarr invasion. Smaller numbers of Thukker were enslaved than any but the Nefantar and only small numbers remain in the Empire. A few have earned freedom, but most of these leave to join their brothers in the Great Wildlands.

The Starkmanir were nearly completely eradicated by [Idonis Ardishapur](2ZNvkPaPzpj4IaVpL2vWK3) following a revolt on Starkman Prime. While genetically pure Starkmanir were thought to be nonexistent until recently, several small populations of mixed-heritage Starkmanir have been present in the Empire. Presently, these make up an insignificant number of the Empire's slaves; some place their numbers lower than a thousand in totality.

Finally, individuals from the Federation and State who commit crimes in the Empire are occasionally sentences to slavery as punishment. Their numbers are small, however.

### Other Freemen
Individuals of other ethnicities have settled in the Empire for a variety of reasons since the empires first came into contact with each other. Most commonly, they converted willingly to the Amarr faith and moved to the Empire in an effort to more easily worship. Additionally, traders and merchants from the other empires have at times managed to break into the rather insular Imperial markets and have relocated to help their businesses flourish, particularly in the Tash-Murkon region. As a condition of citizenship, these traders are required to convert to the Amarr religion, though many become nonpracticing following completion of their conversion.

Of the bloodlines, the [Civire](1lEM3yHeoK1HEpa1FrLwH5) are most numerous, followed closely by the [Deteis](7vixEvaBXQYC2ywT3fyAwd), [Intaki](5DUTZnySsYNmzbNQVPGXZn), and [Achura](4zhtMkBDe0W8xX2ihsfnik). Smaller, but still significant, numbers of ethnic Gallente, [Mannar](4BaMCkOwYaPpd4ZMtEfEY), and [Jin-Mei](6SFvK45QIlCCCoNODY3gUB) live in the Empire as well. Because many of them have support from relatives in their native empires, they tend to be rather well off compared to the typical commoner in the Empire, though they are often treated with suspicion and outright hostility by the indigenous population.

## Religion
Following the Amarr religion is a legal requirement of all citizens of the Amarr Empire, meaning all citizens of the Amarr Empire are de jure followers of the Amarr faith. Anyone born to a citizen of the Empire is assumed to follow the faith, while those immigrating to the Empire must prove their faith through a series of religious trials before being granted citizenship. Slaves are also expected to be brought up as believers by their overseers.

In actuality, there is more religious diversity in the Empire than the Amarr would typically admit. A small but notable portion of the population are actually members of a [Sani Sabik](TDJbDXVg3cRp4b6FEkkFS) cult. Amarr authorities place the number of Sabik cultists at under .1% of the total population, though reasonable outside estimates have ventured as high as 5% at times. A fair number of citizens are also thought to be atheists or agnostics, though proving this is difficult even for Amarr inquisitors. External propaganda often paints the majority of the nobility and royalty of the Empire as closeted atheists, but in actuality the numbers are almost certainly far lower. 

Some portion of immigrants who entered the Empire as workers and traders rather than converts retain their old religions despite officially converting. Many lower class Amarr often assume any immigrant is guilty of this. The number of immigrants who actually violate the law by actively practicing another religion is thought to be rather low.

Among slaves, the belief in different religions is much higher. Many Minmatar secretly practice old tribal customs and participate in shamanism in secret. Some Holders who view their slaves merely as disposable labor simply do not care and allow their slaves to practice freely as long as they remain discrete about it, as a Holder who allows his slaves to openly violate the law are liable for severe punishment. 

The exact numbers of apostasy and heresy (as the crime of following another religion in the Empire is referred to) are difficult to come by, as the Amarr typically suppress actual statistics and there remains a reporting bias, with few willing to openly admit they break the law even anonymously. 

## Economic
The Empire has severe economic stratification between classes. On the top are the royalty and nobility, who own (along with the church) all land and space in the Empire. A rung below them is the relatively small wealthy commoner class, which encompasses merchants, traders, trained professionals, businessmen, artists, and artisans who have managed to make significant amounts of wealth that allow them a greater deal of personal freedom than other commoners. On the bottom are slaves and commoners, who share a contrasting rung. While commoners are legally free, they also have no one who is considered "responsible" for their proper care as slaves are with Holders. Homeless, sick, and unemployed commoners are often much worse off than slaves, though the average commoner can be assumed to have roughly equivalent living conditions to the average slave with the added benefit of freedom.

### Royalty
The royalty of the Empire encompasses the [Emperor's Family](IXrotYvoWOVnuGAMbbYEv), the five Heir families, and all their branches. Any individual with the surname [Ardishapur](l4Pyl3Ih1qyPmOugFKhHO), [Kador](3ium7VluTCFnGS0TqpinlO), [Kor-Azor](1S0FEGgzJiwc4yXaG5AzjD), [Sarum](4EZ4a3Mw8QXHmisAA4Ff6L), or Tash-Murkon is (assuming no identity fraud) a relative of the current Heir through either blood, marriage, or adoption. These families are all unimaginably wealthy, such that even the furthest removed branches are unlikely to ever require personal labor to remain comfortable. On average, members of the Heir families are among the wealthiest individuals in [New Eden](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk), with the five Heirs themselves at or near the very top thanks to their access to the family fortunes.

### Nobility
The Holders and their relatives make up the nobility of the Empire and, on the whole, they control the majority of the Empire's wealth, land, and space. Most Holders are extremely wealthy and own vast swaths of land; some can rightly claim direct ownership of several solar systems, while many are at least owners of entire continents or moons. Many Holders make their wealth through taxation of people living on their land or space. Others, particularly in less populated areas of the Empire, own numerous businesses or utilize their slaves toward money-making enterprises. The most well-off Holders typically undertake both endeavors, providing them with enough financial capital to make even the CEOs of megacorps jealous. 

However, there do exist a number of nobles who are impoverished. These nobles are either those who are looked down on by their title-holding relatives, the last in line for inheritances, or those with paltry titles that give them little more than a single barren moon in the middle of nowhere or a parcel of space without any resources. Even so, for nobles, impoverished is still better off than most commoners, as they can typically welch off a wealthy relative or friend, or receive high-paying, low-labor, low-stress positions in the [Amarr Civil Service](6aABYCAMQONdUY2hcSlgkI), Navy, or other institution. 

### Wealthy Commoners
Because of the strength of the Holder class, wealthy commoners are relatively rare in Amarr society. It takes extremely hard work by a commoner to amass wealth nearing that of the Holders, especially as they are technically not allowed to own any land or space, but instead must "lease" it from the noble owners. They are, however, legal owners of anything they personally place in the location leased, providing them with a difficult means of upward mobility.

Most wealthy commoners in the Empire are traders, either those who import foreign goods or, more often, export products to the other empires. Some merchants produce goods locally and sell them, though because of the manufacturing and agricultural dominance afforded the Holders due to slave labor, this is often difficult to pull off. Finally, a small number of commoners are able to make significant wealth as artists, artisans, or trained professionals (such as lawyers or doctors). However, in the later case, they are often competing with non-titled nobles — who can afford better education and training — which puts them at a significant disadvantage.

### Commoners
The majority of commoners in the Empire are semi-professionals, craftsmen, or employed in clerical or blue-collar work. This generally brings them stability, but no generational financial security. Many occupy what would be termed the "lower middle" or "working" class by Gallente economists, being capable of enjoying a few luxuries but still requiring financial planning to avoid hardship. They hold a standard of living comparable to the other empires.

However, a fairly large portion of the Empire would fall under the classification of working poor and struggle along in poverty. This portion is not as large as in the pre-tribal Republic, but is significantly larger than found in the Gallente Federation. These commoners often struggle to make ends meet and may bounce between low-paying jobs and unemployment. There is little social welfare in the Empire to care for those who meet hard times, thus many wind up homeless or reliant on family, putting additional financial strain on otherwise adequately compensated commoners.

For the most abject poor commoners in the Empire, including the homeless and those suffering from mental illness or physical deformity, living conditions can often be worse than slaves. Churches and other religious institutions may provide some assistance, but more often than not these unfortunate individuals simply fall through the cracks.

### Slaves
On the bottom rung of the Empire's social structure are the slaves. Individual slaves are generally not allowed to own any personal property, hold any form of legal currency, or travel beyond a limited range laid down by their masters. Most slaves are employed for physical labor such as agricultural, janitorial, mining, and house work. Conditions on some plantations and (particularly) mining colonies can be harsh, but most slaves are better off than the truly poor in both the Empire and other nations.

Holders are typically required to provide shelter, sustenance, clothing, and medical care to their slaves, though the quality of these differs from Holder to Holder and depend heavily on the skill and training of the slaves. Mining slaves might be used to wearing rough work clothes and only be treated for physical injury while allowed to suffer from debilitating non-communicable diseases, while a well-trained personal attendant might be dressed in finery and have access to the same doctors as his master. 

Holders are additionally expected to educate their slaves in the Amarr religion. Some go a step further and select particularly talented slaves for more advanced training. These slaves are highly prized and may gain technical and professional skills that surpass most commoners. They are often treated exceptionally by their masters and afforded great personal freedoms that can put their living conditions a rung above commoners, albeit one still shackled to them.

## See Also
* [Amarr Empire](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo)
* [Battle of Vak'Atioth](1Cq1o1feVsJi6HuaVZs1L4)
* [Chronicle: Chained to the Sky](5dHoDzuRHMPK92LU582mIQ)
* [Chronicle: The Day of Darkness](eOrTExOHuibcBoDXU2UxT)
* [Chronicle: Khumaak](3Q8fCGLk2zYanOCvJUYA8j)
