# Prosthetics
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/prosthetics

**Prosthetics** are a special type of implant that replaces an appendage
or limb. They are typically used when limbs are lost via accident or
medically-necessitated amputation, but some choose to have limbs
replaced with prosthetics for body-augmentation or other reasons. The
simplest prosthetics are little more than hooks or pegs that replicate
only the crudest functionality of the appendage, while the most
complicated (and expensive) can surpass ordinary human abilities.

History
-------

Prosthetics have been used throughout human history to aid those who
have lost a limb through injury. The earliest prosthetics were simple
devices, typically carved from wood or bone, and were vastly inferior to
the limb they replaced. Peg legs can allow a person to walk, but they do
a poor job at motor control and balance. Hooks can crudely grasp some
objects, but cannot manipulate them to any intricate degree.

For thousands of years, prosthetics remained troublesome. Even as
technological advances made them more complicated and more capable of
replicating basic human functionality, prosthetics did not truly become
equivalent to natural limbs until fairly recently. Currently,
top-of-the-line prosthetics not only resemble natural limbs without
close inspection, but they also are capable of sensory-feedback that
simulates the sense of touch, fine motor control, and augmented
strength. The best prosthetics are even capable of surpassing human
limits, such as enhancing strength, fine control, and agility.

Types
-----

Prosthetics can be grouped into three rough categories based on
sophistication and the purpose behind the device. These are Basic
Replacements, Cybernetic Limbs, and Augmentative Prosthetics.

### Basic Replacements

These devices are primarily found among the poor and less advanced areas
of [New Eden](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk). These devices typically
are obviously prosthetics, such as replacement legs shaped like curved
metal blades or hands that are immobile claws. These devices typically
replicate a fair amount of daily function of a lost limb, allowing the
user to live comfortably without much aid. However, they almost always
have some disadvantages over normal human limbs.

These disadvantages are usually an inability to make any delicate or
precise movements with the limb (such as writing or painting), a lack of
touch and other sensation, and inelegant interface with flesh leading to
aches and pains. Other issues may also arise, such as replacement legs
leaving a runner with difficulty making sharp turns.

However, they are advantageous in that they are readily available, easy
to maintain, and inexpensive. This makes them among the most common
prosthetics in New Eden, particularly among the outer colonies where
danger is frequent, medical treatment is less available, and money is
sparse.

Cybernetic Limbs
----------------

Cybernetic limbs seek to replicate as much functionality of the lost
limb as possible. They utilize robotics and neural interfaces to allow a
user to control the limb much as they would one made of flesh and bone.
While such prosthetics take some learning to operate naturally, over
time users tend to have no more trouble using their replacements that a
person with their natural limbs.

They run the gamut from simple and relatively cheap to complicated and
expensive. The simplest replacements typically have less motor control
and sensory feedback than human limbs, but still give these to some
degree. A user might be able to throw a ball, but would have difficulty
picking a flower without crushing it, for instance. More advanced models
are capable of the same delicate movements as a normal human limb, but
are more costly to manufacture and require more regular maintenance.

Most are made to resemble the lost appendage as much as possible, using
fake skin colored to match the natural tone and appearance. However,
they can be left bare if desired, or even made from a variety of colors
and materials. In professions where damage to the covering might be
frequent, such as mercenary work, the limbs can be left uncovered to
prevent the need for constant repair. Notably, the 
[Ardishapur Family](l4Pyl3Ih1qyPmOugFKhHO) has a tradition of replacing the
right hand of all males with a silver prosthesis at birth, making no
effort to disguise its cybernetic nature.

Augmentative Prosthetics
------------------------

Augmentative prosthetics seek to push past the limitations of the human
body with cybernetics. These devices are similar in many ways to
standard cybernetic limbs, but take the idea a step further by
possessing abilities beyond the human baseline. These augmented
abilities can take a variety of forms, such as increased strength,
better fine motor control, increased sensitivity, or even hidden
weaponry.

The most common augmentative prosthetics simply increase the strength of
the limb to superhuman levels, allowing a person to lift large weights
or inflict serious wounds with a simple unarmed strike. They are
popular among mercenaries and criminals for this reason, though other
individuals might make use of these abilities as well.

Artists such as painters and sculptors have taken advantage of
augmentations with improved control to create intricate works that are
nearly impossible to create by hand otherwise. Some have pointed out the
hypocrisy of this, as it still replaces human skill with technological
assistance, but the limbs are still controlled directly by the brain and
not through automation.

Even more bizarre prosthetics are possible, such as the replacement of a
hand with a weapon, or legs that can elongate by a meter or more, or
feet with built-in wheels. There even exists a subcommunity of the
[Gallente](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK) body-modding scene which utilizes
augmentations for sexual reasons.

Because of the dangerous nature of augmentative prosthetics, they are
heavily regulated by [CONCORD](5DPzMesjfj3XKshPWBUPWt) and the
[empires](Empire-Factions). Typically anyone possessing one
must register them with law enforcement, particularly if they can be
used as a weapon. In areas outside civilized space, however, they can be
come by readily as long as those interested have the money to spend.

Naturally, such augmentations are far more expensive than even standard
cybernetic limbs and must also be maintained constantly. The additional
capabilities of the augmentations can also take several years to become
comfortable. Some, particularly those with extra sensitivity, have been
shown to cause minor nerve damage and neural degradation, though these
can be treated with drugs.

See Also
--------

-   [Health Items](1atx3NGYkl3oP5JiEa1ShQ#health)
-   [Chronicle: Lady Phanca's Pet Furrier](7vSbzGbhN468wO3uWxUv7r)
-   [Chronicle: The Rite](7GvrxhBvup24zxNjSB1wvm)
