# Arim Ardishapur
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/arim-ardishapur

**Arim Ardishapur** is the Royal Heir-elect of the [Ardishapur Family](l4Pyl3Ih1qyPmOugFKhHO).
With a background in history and
an early career as a scholar and writer, he has become a worthy
successor who values tradition and strict adherence to the Scriptures.
He is however also known for his benevolent nature, striking a solid
balance befitting to a good leader.

Early life
----------

Arim Ardishapur is the nephew of [Yonis Ardishapur](4Tb1Uk75SycuFuiizODkZD), one of the [Five Heirs](54zoGW31RF0k0QF9KkOBjh) to the [Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) Throne.
As the [Ardishapur Decree](6hU25lQLApAKe2PoFmqQpB) dictates, his
right hand was amputated at birth and was replaced by the traditional
silver prosthetic. Arim has chosen to adorn his prosthetic with the
golden seal of the Ardishapur family.

As a young boy Arim spent a fair share of time visiting his uncle's
estate, where Yonis' collection of rare and valuable artifacts piqued
his interest. Here the decision to pursue an education in history is
most likely to have taken root. His wish was to become a scholar, but
his uncle noticed that the boy had an aptitude for politics as well and
began to take an interest in his life.

Arim's father Liriam Ardishapur was highly-ranked and many times
decorated general, and was disappointed in his son, as he had hoped the
boy would follow in his footsteps and join the Amarr Navy. When Arim
turned 16, there was a great falling out between father and son, for
which the former blamed Yonis' 'bad influence' and accused him of
poaching his only child. Arim was never formally disowned, as this would
bring too much shame upon the family. Instead he was sent off to spend
the next two years at school full-time, after which he went to further
his education with the Speakers of Truth. After this education, Arim
went on to live independently on a small estate owned by his parents. It
is assumed that Arim's mother, Naira Ardishapur, brokered this deal with
her husband to avoid her son's situation turning into a scandal.

As Arim was estranged from his parents, Yonis had full reign to groom
his nephew to one day become his successor. Yonis, who'd remained
unmarried and thus had no offspring, saw in Arim the son he never had.
Arim, in his turn, saw in Yonis the father he should have had.

Heir Presumptive
----------------

Arim spent a great many years pursuing scholarly endeavours. He wrote
several books on the history of the Empire, all which relate heavily to
the Scriptures and thus are not considered objective works outside of
Amarrian circles. Due to their niche nature, it wasn't until the
purchase of the slaves of former Grand Admiral Einkur Aro that his
name became known to the larger public.

When Yonis started his campaign of public work, Arim applied himself
most eagerly, first contributing and then starting initiatives of his
own. He became known as a benevolent and deeply religious figurehead in
his own right. His uncle gradually bestowed more power unto him, which
was regarded by the majority of people as justly deserved. Arim has for
some years attended meetings of the [Privy Council](privy-council),
acting as the voice of Yonis in his
absence, and eventually becoming his official delegate.

In the last few years, despite his immense popularity, Yonis has begun
to appear less and less in public and Arim has taken his place more and
more. As a result of this, the Ardishapur Family recently chose Arim to
serve as their new Heir Presumptive.

Arim's agenda is one of a return to the old ways, with a large focus on
the Scriptures, and his benevolent streak cuts the right balance needed
to have a majority support amongst the people. He is strongly in favour
of a just treatment of slaves, and wants to push for a full banning and
stricter punishment for the use of Transcranial Microcontrollers. On the
other hand, he is popular with Holders because of the theological
support of their rights, and his oft-made references to history and
tradition.

Royal Heir-Elect
----------------

While most considered it a mere formality, Royal Heir Yonis Ardishapur
personally confirmed Arim's status as Royal Heir-elect in response to
the call for all Royal Houses to confirm their own successions ahead of
the Imperial Succession that will take place in YC118.

When asked about the passing of [Jamyl I](6jGpYH3ai8pLLJboHVuA3L) and
the Drifters threat, in an interview following his confirmation as Royal
Heir-elect, Arim expressed his belief that the best way for the Empire
to succeed is to look towards what has worked in the past, observing
that: "Through tradition and faith a bolstered unity can be achieved
that is in accordance with the will of God, and will form a shield
against those who threaten Holy Amarr."
