# Caldari Spirituality
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/caldari-spirituality

**Caldari spirituality** is the term for the religion of the
[Caldari](7unGNsrMFwIWXMMbrM2jfy) people.

The Way of the Winds
--------------------

Native to [Caldari Prime](1yEhptNaSoG42YRSay711i), the Way of the
Winds is the name given to the religion practiced by the Caldari since
before the Raata Empire and the most common spiritual tradition in the
State today. Also known as simply "The Way," this religion is a blend of
animism and ancestor worship and is practiced mainly by
[Civire](1lEM3yHeoK1HEpa1FrLwH5) and [Deteis](7vixEvaBXQYC2ywT3fyAwd) in the State
and elsewhere, though the Way is a cyclical fad in the [Gallente Federation](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK), where Gallente youth have sometimes
used it as a symbol of rebellion. Such practice is considered
blasphemous and disrespectful, though most Caldari tend to simply
dismiss it as "Gallente being Gallente."

### The Maker

The Way holds that the universe was created by an amorphous "the Maker",
an omnipotent force which forged the world and all in it. Believers hold
that the Maker created the world in a chaotic state, and then imbued
spirits into the natural forces of the universe and into those that fill
it so that they could tame the chaos and create order. For Wayists, the
world is seen as a test to forge the worthy, like hammering steel, and
weed out the unworthy. This view is likely a relic of Caldari Prime's
difficult past, when the planet was barely habitable due to incomplete
terraforming. This view of the universe has also shaped the competitive
and often cold nature seen among Caldari, at least to outsiders.

The Maker, however, plays little part in the day-to-day practice of the
religion, as it is seen as the "catalyst" for the world's events, but
has little involvement, only watching from afar. The only time the Maker
might be invoked is in rituals which test fate, such as the [Tea Maker Ceremony](4hZCOgeIQ4zuF3Gx8eFeCY); a test to see who is worthy
and who is not. In practice, it is more of a measure of strength, of
course, as few consent to the Tea Maker Ceremony if they do not have to,
but it is important to understand the world view that basically compels
ritual suicide.

### Nature Spirits

The Way does describe nature spirits, however, the most important of
which are the Winds, especially Cold Wind, which features most
prominently in Caldari folklore. These nature spirits are usually seen
as benevolent, though they are always portrayed as taking the long view,
and the wider view, commonly phrased as "the spirits watch over us, not
you and me." The Winds and the other spirits serve the purposes of the
Maker, helping to guide the Caldari along the path to order. These
spirits do not demand worship, taking more of the role of a proud
parent; as with their parents however, it is a poor Caldari which does
not show them their love and respect. However, none of the spirits are
ever portrayed as people, and to do so implies a great deal of
disrespect; to the Caldari, to portray a spirit as a mere person is
blasphemous, and implies that the person who did so considers himself on
the same level as the spirits.

Though there are literally hundreds of spirits mentioned in Caldari oral
tradition and written texts, here are a few of the most common. While
most are closely associated with features of Caldari Prime, it is
important to note that the Caldari do not consider them restricted to
any one world; Cold Wind still blows on New Caldari Prime.

#### Cold Wind

[Cold Wind](16iSgSK58hOq8DIlx2oqKS) is seen as first of the Winds, the
parent of all others; all the Winds have their domains, but for Cold
Wind he is everywhere. Cold Wind is all the frosty air of Caldari Prime
personified, the crisp, clear air with a gentle morning breeze of a
Caldari winter and the punishing gales sweeping off the glaciers with
the force to blow small villages right off the map. All other Winds look
up to him, and work with him to shape the Caldari. To the Caldari, he
was always near to them and he was the one breathed the seeds of
knowledge to their ancestors. He welcomed them when they first came to
the world and told them the stories of its creation. Of all the spirits,
he is the closest to the Maker's will, and his love for the worthy and
disappointment with the unworthy is unmatched.

#### Mountain Wind

[Mountain Wind](NEtuLo38zgFK9ZA0sGYCk) is the watcher of the skies
and of the lands, swirling about the high peaks of world, carrying news
of what he finds to the other spirits. Though a silent observer, when he
speaks the other spirits listen, and Caldari would do best to listen as
well; he does not waste words on trivialities. One Caldari folktale from
the time just after contact with the Gallente describes him giving the
first words of warning about the new visitors - "they come to tame the
wind." Mountain Wind is also portrayed as the patron of scholars and
historians, and has particular importance for the [Kaalakiota Corporation](xW4SSaPMqTaHQ1RLt0IcK), which is named
for the towering mountains where the Caldari believe he is strongest.

#### Storm Wind

[Storm Wind](vAU7b4dGGPGQNp6QRw6mX) is the fiercest of the Winds, aside
from an enraged Cold Wind, but also has a playful side, dancing among
the peaks and teasing Mountain Wind. Storm Wind is the pelting rain of
the mountain highlands, crackling as it turns to sleet, the flash of
lightning and boom of thunder, and the smell of ozone. Storm Wind is a
force of battle, of man against man and man against the elements, the
hottest forge to fashion the strongest steel. Storm Wind is especially
important to the Caldari military, whose funerals are often scheduled to
occur in the middle of poor weather as an offering.

#### Wind-of-the-West

[Wind-of-the-West](3FsbhfAVn48VZcWAXiTReI) comes from the Great
Western Sea of Caldari Prime, and he is seen as the Wind which carries
the rain to the homelands of the Caldari. The presence of
Wind-of-the-West is seen in fog and gentle rains, and in the tang of
salt air. A guardian of the waters, Winds-of-the-West was venerated
highly by sailors and all along the west coast of the Raata Empire; in
Caldari folklore, Winds-of-the-West not only taught the Caldari to sail
but the ways of trade as well, making him second only to Cold Wind in
the minds of modern Caldari.

#### Heart-of-the-Forest

[Heart-of-the-Forest](3zH6qMixgVJtQUgHF3KFFM) is the spirit of
the mighty kresh trees, of things that are green and growing. The Winds
protect her, but often they bring a temporary pain to her to spare a
greater suffering. She is the great provider for the Caldari, her wood
builds and heats their homes, her game fills their bellies and clothes
their skin, and her leaves and branches hide them from their enemies.
She also uses her resources wisely; everything in the forest serves a
purpose, however small. Heart-of-the-Forest is perhaps the best known
teacher among the spirits, aside from Cold Wind, although she rarely
tells anyone anything directly, preferring to teach by example. She is
prominent in Caldari beliefs about the home and hearth, and part of the
reason Caldari tend to prefer wood in their buildings, especially homes.

#### Ancestor Spirits

In addition to nature spirits, the Way also highly reveres the spirits
of a person's ancestors, which tend to feature more prominently in
stories and beliefs regarding personal or family struggle and
achievement. Most Caldari homes feature a small shrine to their
ancestors, where they often burn incense and pray to their ancestors for
guidance or to watch over their endeavors. The shrine can often feature
pictures of recently passed or especially prominent loved ones;
paintings are the preferred representation, but photographs or
holographs are more common.

Ancestor spirits are commonly prayed to for more material concerns; in
the past, this might have been good harvests, good fortune in battle, or
the health of a loved one, but today it is just as common for Caldari to
pray for good job performance or for their superiors to recognize their
achievements. Prayers of this nature, however, do not ask for the
ancestor spirits to intercede directly. Instead a person will ask his
ancestors to lend them their strength or knowledge so that he can
achieve their goals on his own.

### Temples and Clergy

Most standalone temples and shrines built by the Caldari are for the
veneration of one or more nature spirits, usually built in a place that
that spirit is thought to hold a great deal of sway. Most tend to be
very open to the elements, with tall columns surrounding an open
courtyard, often with elaborate topiary gardens surrounding them. Even
the smallest towns and villages usually has at least one shrine located
nearby, tended by a lone steward, as Wayist monks are called. There is
no organized church or hierarchy among the stewards; in general, each
temple or shrine runs its own affairs and decides which applicants to
take. In all but the largest shrines, most stewards will have some other
job in addition to their stewardship.

The largest Wayist shrine in Caldari space, however, is the Landfall
Shrine on New Caldari Prime, which is primarily for the veneration of
ancestor spirits, and is of prime importance to the Caldari people.
Built on the landing site of the first Kaalakiota colony ship to reach
the planet more than 350 years ago, Landfall Shrine is a sprawling
complex of gardens, temples, and a large necropolis, housing the
anonymous tombs of more than 12,000 heroes of the Caldari State. It is
the only shrine which is supported through a national endowment, and
most Caldari, even those who are not Wayists, make at least one trip to
the site during their lifetimes.

Wayism is not an evangelical religion, and most Caldari take it as
simply a fact of the universe, not a truth to be spread. The general
attitude of most Caldari to nonbelievers is that it is their right to
believe in whatever god or gods they like, as Wayism is very much
centered on the Caldari people themselves anyway. The
[Achura](4zhtMkBDe0W8xX2ihsfnik), and to a lesser extent the
[Intaki](5DUTZnySsYNmzbNQVPGXZn), are considered to have a different
understanding of the same realities, which is one of the reasons that
the Caldari were eager to incorporate both into the State. Atheist
Caldari are not uncommon, and not treated with any particular scorn,
though many go through the motions of Wayism purely out of cultural
tradition rather than any real belief.

### Death

[Death](5WNhh1Tm9Ucm0ni1HgOotc), for Wayists, represents a transition from a
corporeal being to a purely spiritual one; when a man dies, he remains
in the homes and hearts of his family, giving them counsel and lending
them his strength. The Way holds that when fate decides it is time,
there is little you can do to avoid death. While this does not keep
Caldari from obtaining medical treatment - after all, the Winds would
not have given the Caldari medicine if they did not intend them to use
it - it does give them a fatalistic outlook on life, and this is
reflected in the general acceptance of death as an inevitability to be
handled, not something to be feared. Many Caldari find the notion of an
idyllic afterlife, such as the [Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) concept of
heaven, to be somewhat ridiculous.

Cremation is the exclusive method of burial used by Wayists (and even
most secular Caldari), with the belief being that the burning of the
body encourages the spirit to commit fully to his new existence. In
cases where cremation is not possible (if the body has been lost or is
otherwise inaccessible), a full-size effigy, usually crafted from reeds,
paper, or wood, is burned and interred within a necropolis instead.
Unlike in many other religious traditions, it is considered
disrespectful to keep the ashes of an ancestor in one's home,
essentially taunting the spirit with his former body.

See Also
--------
-   [The Caldari State](7unGNsrMFwIWXMMbrM2jfy)
-   [Chronicle: Cold Wind](6p1dVRZb0mLS2OPFXj8eGJ)
