# Epidermal Patches
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/epidermal-patches

An **epidermal patch** is a medical adhesive that delivers drugs,
nanotech, and other substances to the bloodstream through the skin. They
utilize nanobots to adapt to the skin of the user, allowing chemicals to
more easily pass through the skin barrier. The patches are advantageous
over other forms of application, as it allows a controlled release into
the patient. Their main disadvantage is the effectiveness of the skin as
a barrier, as only certain chemicals are small enough to be absorbed.
This disadvantage is mitigated by sufficient nanotechnological
applications.

Development
-----------

Dermal patches as a method of drug delivery are ancient, dating back to
pre-space flight times for some civilizations. They were typically
favored for applications where low, steady doses were called for as
opposed to a single, large dose. These patches typically had a porous
membrane over a reservoir or used layers that were melted through body
heat. However, the number of chemicals that could be absorbed by the
skin was limited, meaning only certain drugs could be placed into a
patch.

The development of nanotechnology largely eliminated that concern.
Modern epidermal patches can be infused with nanobots which are capable
of carrying component chemicals across the skin barrier and
reconstructing them inside the bloodstream. This can allow a large
number of chemicals to safely cross into the bloodstream. The nanobots
usually are programmed to self-destruct once their jobs are finished,
allowing them to be safely filtered out by the patient's kidneys.

The nanotech also allows the epidermal patches to adapt to the user's
skin, allowing it to adhere more perfectly. For those desiring discrete
application of their medication, patches can also quickly blend in with
their skin tone, making them nearly-invisible and virtually
undetectable.

Uses
----

Epidermal patches have a wide variety of uses. The most common usage
remains as an unobtrusive method of delivering drugs to a patient's
bloodstream. They are painless, giving them advantage over injections,
and typically provide a constant low dose of drugs. Unlike ingested
drugs, they do not rely on the digestive tract to activate them,
eliminating any complications that can arise there.

Other uses include the delivery of nanobots themselves to the body.
These nanobots can have a variety of uses, from repairing damaged blood
vessels to improving the immune system to regulating chemical
imbalances. Other nanotech, such as nano-transceivers and tracking
devices can be implanted into a subject through epidermal patches as
well.

See Also
--------
-   [Chronicle: The Resurrection Men](4vhKlx6P0Ci86mFFAW476r)
