# Caille
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/caille

**Caille** is the largest city on [Gallente Prime](41JbD6M3Keq024T44ULv7a), and one of the many cultural and
economic centers of the wider [Federation](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK).
Situated on the river Stomeve in the heart of the Garoun continent, the
city dates back to before the rise of the Rouvenor dynasty, since
expanding to encompass nearby towns and villages into its wider
conglomeration. It is perhaps most famously known as the home of the
[University of Caille](3yrFWFSjOxnFu1GTFhudTM), and the
[Crystal Boulevard](45ZcfxzqF7v2mqmLksGxYU), a shopping district
that is built over a hardened military bunker. As a hub of Luminaire
culture alongside cities such as [Hueromont](1PzpjLA0ZHtQRZu2f8x4gO), it
is famous across [New Eden](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk) for its
extravagancy and flamboyancy.

History
-------

### Age of the Ancients

Caille is one of the earliest recorded settlements on Gallente Prime,
starting out as nothing but a fishing settlement on the Stomeve river.
For many centuries, Caille (historically Cylle) did not develop beyond a
few hundred people, content to live in oblivion from the wider world.
However, during the Iron Age, it became a strategic target for the
various kingdoms that sought control of the Stomeve river, which ran
from coast-to-coast along the continent. Caille eventually grew into a
large town under the rule of various vassal leaders, exchanging hands
between various empires on a frequent basis. Its stone walls did not
always prove adequate in fending off invaders, and Caille was often
pillaged and ransacked.

Eventually, the people of Caille had enough. In AD 21656, under the
leadership of a young Doule dos Rouvenor, a new independent kingdom was
declared. As an immediate threat to the other nations, a war raged on
multiple fronts. Thanks to King Rouvenor's tactical genius, he was able
to fight back the invaders and expand the borders of his new kingdom,
swaying the local populace to their cause with his charisma. Not two
years later, Rouvenor declared the creation of the first Garoun Empire,
the territory of which encompassed the entire continent.

### Garoun Empire and Industrial Age

As the centrally-located capital of the new empire, Caille received an
influx of peoples and cultural ideas from across the continent. Although
the Garoun Empire was a continental power on a maritime world, its
status as the greatest empire on Gallente Prime meant that it became the
center of civilization at the time. Under the socially and
technologically progressive rule of Doule dos Rouvenor III, Caille was a
hub of philosophical and ethical thought, with slavery gradually
becoming eradicated during this era. The war with the seven armies of
Morthane had little consequence on Caille, allowing it to flourish.

When the Garoun Empire collapsed under its own weight in AD 21837,
Caille became the first industrialized city on Gallente Prime. Its city
limits began expanding outwards, incorporating other towns and
settlements into its greater metropolitan area. While pollution became a
problem, the development of ecological technologies during
post-industrialization mitigated many of the long-term consequences of
this. Caille's location meant it was undisturbed by the information era
wars, and would be one of the leading cities in the eventual
globalization of Gallente Prime, even as a much smaller nation-state
than it once was.

### Federation era

When the [Gallente Federation was founded in AD 23121](5hUiG2COBH343iSJznERSi),
Caille was selected to be the capital of the new colonial alliance. This
was unsurprising to many critics of the Federation's founding, noting
the dominance of the Gallente in interstellar affairs at the time.
Governmental buildings were constructed, including a presidential palace
that is sometimes still used to this day, and Caille soon experienced
all the benefits of being the center of an interstellar empire.

Under the
Ultra-Nationalist during the beginning of the [Gallente-Caldari War](1ehjby0lOpdwMJf9CprPtV),
Caille was ruled with an iron fist. The U-Nat secret police had a strong
presence in the city, and it is generally regarded as a very dark period
in Caille's history. During this time, the Ultra-Nationalists drew up
plans to construct an heavily fortified bunker for the Federal
government beneath the city, to protect the military and political
command in the event of something that Caldari admiral [Yakiya Tovil-Toba](RsUoECrk1bkV0t35D4sDE) ended up doing, crashing his
carrier into the city of Hueromont and killing two million people.

Though the bunker was never constructed under the Ultra-Nationalists,
the Federation government that followed after the Hueromont Incident
decided to go through with the plans. Instead of constructing the bunker
beneath the city itself, it was built under the green belt next to
Caille's financial district. The space above the bunker was then rented
to businesses and corporations, constructing the modern day Crystal
Boulevard. The Boulevard acts as a shield for the bunker, twenty meters
deep of pure synthetic diamond, followed by eighty meters worth of
latticed, crystal-carbonate nanofiber armor.

When the Federation capital was moved from Luminaire to Villore, the
bunker was handed over by the Federal government to the Gallente Prime
military, and it is now the heart of the world's planetary defense
network, rumored to have expanded tenfold since its original
construction, and subject to many conspiracy theories. Despite Caille no
longer being the capital city of the Federation, it continues to enjoy
its status as one of the cultural and economic hearts of the wider
nation.

Geography & Environment
-----------------------

Caille is located roughly in the center of the Garoun continent, built
on both sides of the Stomeve river. The surrounding terrain is mostly
grasslands and rolling hills, making the city relatively flat, though it
is not far from the marsh and alpine regions of Garoun. Caille
experiences a continental climate, with four distinct seasons. The
summer months are hot and humid, while the winters are cold, snowy and
windy. Rising sea levels, though quite minimal on Gallente Prime
overall, did not have much effect on the Stomeve river. This
unremarkable and inoffensive climate allowed Caille to continue to hold
onto its status for hundreds of years, not being victim to any natural
disasters that may have stifled its development.

The farmlands outside of Caille's city limits are home to many different
villages and small towns, while there are some forests that inhabit the
city's green belt, home to a variety of different domestic animal
species. The natural environment did not suffer much permanent damage
during Caille's industrialization, as the local expertise for ecological
preservation went a long way to maintaining an equilibrium with the
surroundings.

Cityscape & Infrastructure
--------------------------

Caille is a low-rise city that is located around and along the Stomeve
river. Encompassing many different historical towns and districts, there
is no universal architectural style to the city, and it would take many
visits to explore Caille in its entirety. The oldest parts of the city
are located centrally, with the districts gradually becoming more recent
the further out one goes, with contemporary suburbs located past the
green belt that encircles the inner and medial parts of the city,
although incorporated towns and villages in these areas retain their
historical architecture. The original campus of the University of
Caille, founded towards the end of the Rouvenor era, is located on the
outskirts of the city, nestled in a forested area, with some
sub-campuses located within Caille itself.

Central Caille is marked by the white stone walls that date back
thousands of years. Though these walls have decayed to almost nothing in
some places, they are nonetheless preserved by the city authorities as a
boundary to the center of town. Located within these boundaries is the
City of the Ancients, an historical site that encompasses the oldest
buildings and pathways of the city, built using white marble. The
architecture is somewhat eccentric compared to the rest of Caille,
comprised of sharp triangular and circular constructions, along with
white brick roadways. In the heart of the City of the Ancients is the
Sanctuary of the Seventh
Goddess, the city's largest and main cathedral, famous for its multicolored crystal windows
and gemstone mosaics. Its spire is the highest point in Caille outside
the Crystal Boulevard and financial district, and can be seen from most
places in the city. The equally ancient Palace of the Ens√Æks (Kings) straddles
the edge of the City of the Ancients and the rest of central Caille,
accessible from either side. It is the extravagant residence of the
current royal family, dating back to Doule dos Rouvenor II.

The rest of central Caille is, for the most part, composed of industrial
era terraced blocks ranging from four to ten storeys high, with distinct
mansard roofing. The shades and colorations of these buildings vary
greatly. There are also some sidestreets with half-timber buildings,
which often host various public houses. The roads are mostly
cobblestone, although busier thoroughfares have been replaced with
asphalt and/or concrete. The Houses of the High Parliament is also
located in this part of the city. The financial district, known as
L'Neiro, is located by the river, made up of early modern skyscrapers of
glass, steel and concrete, being one of the few high-rise areas in the
city. The Crystal Boulevard, perhaps the most well-known district in
Caille, sits in between L'Neiro and the green belt. Everything in the
Boulevard, from the roads to the lamp posts, is made from materials that
seek to emulate a crystalline appearance, including glass or
synthetically grown diamond. The Boulevard has a set of its own
crystalline skyscrapers of typical Gallente design, though no buildings
exceed the height of the Sanctuary's main spire. The power requirements
for both L'Neiro and the Boulevard are provided by their own solar
receivers, while the rest of the city's power is provided for by a
hydroelectric dam upriver, in the alpine mountain regions nearby.

The city has an extensive public transport system, with a bus network
and an underground metro that covers most of the metropolitan area.
Railways, constructed during industrialization, remain particularly
important, snaking outwards across the Garoun continent and connecting
up with other towns and cities. Doule dos Rouvenor Spaceport provides
links to other areas of Gallente Prime, and offers flights to mooring
stations in orbit.

Politics
--------

Caille is the capital of the (Ens√Ænate) Kingdom of Central Garoun, a legacy nation
and sub-planetary member of the Gallente Federation. It is also the host
of Gallente Prime's planetary assembly. As the brief capital of the
Federation, Central Garoun lost authority over the city, forced to move
its administrative capital elsewhere. It was returned to the nation when
Villore became the new Federal capital, however. Central Garoun is a
constitutional monarchy, though actual power is exclusively held by the
High Parliament, with the royal family mostly around for the purposes of
ceremony, tradition and culture.

When the Garoun Empire collapsed centuries ago, there was a brief civil
war between a democratist and royalist faction. The former wished to
overthrow the monarchy and replace it with a democratic system under
universal suffrage, while the royalists sought to retain their
traditional system, citing the need for a strong leader in the face of a
rapidly realigning continent. A compromise was reached, establishing a
democratic legislature alongside a weaker monarchy. Over the next few
generations, the High Parliament grew in power, reducing the monarchy to
having nothing but a ceremonial role.

Unlike Hueromont, Caille did not apply for independent megalopolis
status on the Federal level, which would have granted it increased
freedoms and recognition nationally. Instead, how it is accounted for in
the administrative system appears overly complex and unnecessarily
convoluted to outsiders. It juggles the status of being the capital of
its own pre-Federation legacy state, the *de facto* political center of
Gallente Prime, and a cultural hub of the wider Federation (which
unofficially grants it more power and influence than it otherwise would
have). To the locals, Caille continuing to be apart of its legacy
nation-state is important in respecting the history of the city, the
legacy of the Rouvenor dynasty, and its participating role in the
development of modern Gallente culture.

Economy
-------

Caille is one of the two global cities of Gallente Prime, alongside
Hueromont. It is an economic powerhouse, primarily around the finance,
service and tourist industries, and is one of the most visited cities in
New Eden. Restaurants, nightclubs, theaters, opera houses and other such
venues rack in millions of ISK per year, while most New Eden
megacorporations have a presence in the city. The tourist and service
sectors are centered around the City of the Ancients and the Crystal
Boulevard, while L'Neiro is the heart of the financial sector.
Previously, the City of the Ancients took in the most tourist revenue
long before the Crystal Boulevard was conceived of. The former was not
very commercialized, and was highly regulated by the city authority,
with local businesses adopting a period aesthetic to fit in with the
surroundings. The Boulevard, however, remains mostly unregulated, with
new owners moving in and out in an endlessly cyclical fashion. Most of
these businesses, with the exception of venues such as nightclubs, are
subsidiaries of interstellar megacorporations. The L'Neiro district is
shared between these megacorporations and older companies that date back
before the Federation. The [Bank of Luminaire](4bnT8zUwvoUORCQotMfK7R), for example, has its original
headquarters at L'Neiro. As a result, the district has a strong sway in
financial affairs, both on Gallente Prime and beyond.

Though not as primary a leader in fashion as the Coriault Couture
Collective or [Mannar](4BaMCkOwYaPpd4ZMtEfEY) Textile Institute
International, Caille has its own ranges and designs, varying from
casual to eccentric. Widely-used Caillean leather (and its synthetic
variants) is produced and sold all over the cluster, with cheap
imitations being found as far as [Dam-Torsad](UI6KVmdCZ0H42EvHijFVZ) on
[Amarr Prime](bHRN1rfoBSiLCOFANsGI4). Entertainment, along with
literature and poetry, is another strong sector of Caille, with period
holodramas set in old areas of the city being quite common. Fine
jewelery using gemstones is also a major export of Caille.

Demographics & Culture
----------------------

Caille is extremely cosmopolitan, incorporating peoples and cultures
from all four corners of New Eden. This melting pot manifests itself in
many different ways. For example, fashion follows the contemporary style
while fusing in elements of other cultures, and the cuisine is
constantly evolving, as ingredients are imported from across the
cluster. Demographically speaking, the population of Caille is extremely
interracial. The local Gallente are mixed between the different
ethnicities of the homeworld, who have in turn mixed with immigrants
from off-world, including both Federation and non-Federation races.
Caille has its own language dialect as a result of this.

The presence of the University of Caille had and still has a great
influence on academic thought that is exported out of the city, going a
long way to shape classical and modern Gallente thought. Student
activism has an incredibly strong sway on grassroots politics, which is
amplified by the University's interstellar presence across the
Federation. Moreover, the melting pot nature of the University, which is
attended by students from all empires, has influenced Caille in being
extremely welcoming to immigrants and other outsiders. However, Caille
is one of the most expensive cities in New Eden to live in, and is often
the final goal for some aspiring migrants to the Federation.

Though Caille is disproportionately prosperous, it is not without its
downsides. Behind the facade of glamor and success, a very amoral
underworld permeates Caillean society, particularly in the city's high
culture. Fashion houses have often been implicated in acquiring their
models from human traffickers, or purchased illegally from slavers. It
remains a chronic problem, yet does nothing to dent Caille's reputation
within the general purview, which some say makes the matter even more
sinister. Similarly, crime families that date back many generations have
a strong sway in economic activity. While it is not to a level that has
any effect on the ordinary citizen, there have been many cases over the
years of institutional corruption because of it, along with a series of
high-profile murders, kidnappings and extortions. These darker sides of
Caille have never really made much of an issue for the city or people,
but it is enough for more discerning individuals of New Eden to be
turned off the city completely.

See Also
--------
- [Crystal Boulevard](45ZcfxzqF7v2mqmLksGxYU)
- [Gallente Prime](41JbD6M3Keq024T44ULv7a)
- [Hueromont](1PzpjLA0ZHtQRZu2f8x4gO)
- [History of the ethnic Gallente](K3yMi4r4UmMMOqIip9Vj3)
- [The Crystal Boulevard](5S78lsJE2tnuLoV9qcIPe3)
- [Chained to the Sky](5dHoDzuRHMPK92LU582mIQ)
