# Mishi IV
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/mishi-iv

Mishi IV is the fourth planet in the Mishi solar system in the
[Aridia](uPYIH9Hhde0bYIaZFR4eB) region. It is the homeworld of the
[Ni-Kunni](5zoewV2VJJnYgvWj0Khn1K) people. The planet is arid and
inhospitable, with very little surface water. The several oceans it
possesses are noted for their extreme salinity, making them unsuitable
for human consumption. Despite the harsh conditions, geological evidence
points to a much less hospitable past, with evidence of some
terraforming in its recent history. The planet is resource pour, leaving
many questions as to why it was chosen for settlement.

History
-------

### Pre-colonization

Roughly 19 billion years ago, Mishi IV coalesced out of the solar
nebula. As it cooled, several small bodies of water formed on its
surface and a thin atmosphere formed around it. The planet was harsh and
rocky; there is debate as to whether the planet would have been
classified as a barren world, or if it barely met the requirements to be
called a terrestrial world.

Regardless, the planet's conditions were suitable for minimal amounts of
primitive life. Microbial fossils date back roughly 15 billion years.
These microbes gradually thickened Mishi IV's atmosphere, but similarly
are believed to be responsible for the extreme salinity of the planet.
Around 10 billion years ago, multicellular life began to take hold. The
earliest were little more than pond scum able to tolerate the briny
water, though eventually simplistic animals and plants managed to
emerge.

Eventually, the land was breached, though it seems unlikely life was
especially bountiful there. Records indicate most life was small and
short-lived, with life cycles that were tied to sporadic rainfalls and
brief periods of wetness. Several different dominant species evolved and
then went extinct during this period, with the most successful being a
squat reptilian predator roughly the size of an adult hand that
dominated for about 250 million years.

### Human arrival

Roughly 20,000 years ago, several large, icy comets impacted Mishi IV
within a span of several years. The likelihood of several events
occurring in such a quick fashion is incredibly low, leading to
conclusion that they were the beginning of a plan to terraform the
planet. The date of the last impact roughly corresponds with the
collapse of the [EVE Gate](2z1KQXUVtPP1WmlwcJaX4o) and first records of
human habitation.

The comet impacts caused massive extinctions across the planet, but it
also thickened the atmosphere and added a significant amount of water to
the planet. It is estimated that anywhere from 40% to 80% of the
planet's current water supply was provided by these impacts. However,
because the planet remains relatively dry, it is surmised that the
terraforming was never completed and further impacts had been planned by
the early colonists.

The exact reasons for the settlers choosing the planet as the site of
their colony is unknown. The planet has little valuable resources,
making it unlikely the colonists wished to exploit it financially. The
most prominent is that the settlers were religious extremists looking to
start anew in a new world. This theory posits that Mishi IV was selected
as a place free of temptation and full of hardship, forcing the settlers
to be of stern moral fiber.

Regardless of the reasons for its colonization, Mishi IV was suddenly
home to a large population of humans. These were the ancestors of the
modern Ni-Kunni. Life on the planet was difficult, as the landscape was
still changing from the aborted terraforming attempts. Natural life was
scarce, though it rebounded significantly after around a thousand years,
eventually giving rise to several larger land species which became
important to the Ni-Kunni's ancestors for food, labor, and trade.

### Dark Ages

When the EVE Gate collapsed, the civilization on Mishi IV collapsed
completely. Cut off from vital resources and left with a partially
terraformed planet, the early settlers were unable to cope. Populations
turned to in-fighting over the dwindling resources, eventually leaving
them fractured and scattered. With little fresh water, few edible local
species, and swaths of infertile ground, the settlers nearly died out.

Small groups managed to survive, however, by assuming a nomadic
lifestyle. By abandoning the half-finished settlements they had
established, the people gradually lost all knowledge of their prior
glory. Stories were passed down through the generations, but as
knowledge faded, these tales became twisted with legend and
embellishments to become little more than fables.

Gradually, as the conditions on the planet stabilized, the descendants
of the survivors were able to reestablished primitive civilizations. Due
to the harsh conditions and scarce natural resources, they were slow to
develop and evolve. It took thousands of years before the first cities
reappeared on Mishi IV and from those eventually rose more complex
societies.

However, the civilizations of Mishi IV would not naturally progress
beyond the beginnings of an Industrial Revolution.

### Amarr Arrival

The [51st Exploration Corps](6MzaBwaygRlMDpoySEklEl), a
detachment of the [Imperial Navy](3PKvXZS0iHKIgAmO9np74g), arrived on Mishi
IV around 1000 years ago. They immediately began the process
of the [Reclaiming](70QLNGRwCwHUgmcjTmuhsA), enslaving large portions of
the population and eliminating those who were deemed unworthy.

After pacifying and enslaving the population, the
[Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) began to settle the planet themselves. While
the planet was less hospitable than many others the
Amarr had encountered, the prospect of controlling a
new source of slaves enticed many [Holders](dO9vxs4a40LrzJyoq2L8v) to bring
their households to the planet. Similarly, treasure hunters, convinced
that the planet had been settled for a reason, over-invested in
exploiting the planet's limited resources. While many of these investors
lost significantly in their investment, it did bring growth to the
planet and catapulted it into a modern era.

### Modern Day

Today, much of the planet has been ceded back to free Ni-Kunni. The
majority of the population is of Ni-Kunni descent, with several Ni-Kunni
Holders overseeing the planet's administration. A few small enclaves of
Amarr monks make the planet their home; these religious grounds remain
the only areas of the planet not subject to Ni-Kunni authority.

Mishi IV is economically under-developed. It is far from the core of the
Empire and is distant from trade routes. Several wealthy Ni-Kunni
merchants have proposed plans to inject vitality to the region and the
planet, including the completion of the planet's terraforming, but none
have yet come to fruition.

Climate
-------

Mishi IV is typically characterized as a dry, desert world by outsiders.
In some senses, this is true, as the planet has roughly 40% ocean cover,
far less than the majority of terrestrial worlds, and features little
rainfall. However, overall, the planet is quite temperate and has a
large range of climates. The equatorial region is quite hot year round,
regularly reaching 360 K or more. The planet has polar regions, but
because of the limited water, the ice caps are small.

The majority of Mishi IV can be divided into three biomes: actual
desert, dust plains, and arid steppes. Deserts tend to dominate the
equatorial regions and are mostly uninhabited. Little life survives in
these areas, which often do not see rainfall for years at a time.

The dust plains are more scattered and tend to fill the gaps between
mountainous areas and the oceans. As with the deserts, they are very
dry, though they often see seasonal rainfall that can turn an area wet
and teeming with life for several weeks.

The steppes are the most diverse of areas on Mishi IV, with much of the
planet's vegetation and animal species. Similarly, most of the planet's
cities are situated in this biome, particularly clustered around
permanent lakes and rivers that provide year-round sources of fresh
water.

The planet also has scattered forests which provide limited amounts of
timber. Many of these were destroyed by the Amarr following their
conquest of the planet; those natural forests that remain are protected
reserves.

To the surprise of many, the planet even has a few jungles. Though they
are small, they are teeming with life and contribute disproportionately
to the biodiversity of the planet.

Flora and Fauna
---------------

Most of Mishi IV's native life is confined to the planet's brine oceans.
Species that live in the oceans are specially adapted to survive the
extreme salinity. This additionally makes many of them unsuitable for
consumption by non-native species, as the salt concentrates in flesh and
is difficult to extract. The oceans are dominated by arthropods, with
fish and reptile species being rare and often near the bottom of the
food chain.

On land, the reptiles are the dominant native life forms. These fill the
majority of ecological niches, with several apex predators growing to
the size of adult [slaver hounds](4nmSv26geCZDYdQ8E5cVh9).
Several species have been domesticated by the Ni-Kunni and are used as
livestock and beasts of burden. Arthropods and small mammal species fill
out the biosphere. Mishi IV has no native avians, with flying reptiles
filling their evolutionary roles.

For the most part, plants are small shrubs, grasses, and cacti. A large
number of flowering plants have developed extremely spicy fruit, which
is reflected in Ni-Kunni cuisine. In the scattered forests, trees are
small and possess extremely dense wood, though they rarely grow large
enough for it to be economically useful.

Demographics
------------

Despite being a prominent homeworld, Mishi IV ranks near the middle on
the list of most-populated planets in the Empire. The vast majority of
the planet is inhabited by free Ni-Kunni, with small populations of
[True Amarr](2DkiJVfiL1RYP5y7AJGSNN),
[Khanid](1IRIdXfOZrfl5BuFuabOh6) and
[Minmatar](1rpu7pfwTPVznAczjw2pOp). The Holders governing the planet are
among the very few Ni-Kunni Holders in the Empire. These Holders tend to
be less affluent than their True Amarr fellows, and consequently own
relatively few [slaves](slavery) in comparison. Thus,
compared to most worlds throughout the Empire, Mishi IV has barely any
Minmatar or other slave races.

The majority of the inhabitants are poor commoners who make their
livings are artisans and laborers. Because the planet is poor in both
resources and trade importance, traders and merchants find it an
unattractive place to do business. While local needs are accounted for,
businesses make modest profits compared to more affluent portions of the
Empire.

The vast majority of inhabitants live clustered in the scattered cities.
Some free Ni-Kunni have adopted nomadic lifestyles in imitation of their
ancestors, though most agree that their lives only superficially
resemble historical fact.

Economics
---------

Mishi IV is a poor world with a stagnant economy. The planet possesses
little in the way of material resources, with little in the way of heavy
metal deposits. Thanks to its dry atmosphere and relative age, the
planet does have a large number of fossil fuel deposits. However, these
are deep within the planet's crust and the demand for fossil fuels is
small cluster-wide.

Coupled with the poor and undeveloped nature of Aridia as a whole, Mishi
IV is one of the poorer planets in the Empire. The planet has little
exportable wealth, and imports tend to be limited to basic necessities
such as water and food. Because of the harsh climate, the planet must
rely on imports to sustain its population, putting a strain on its
economy.

Several wealthy Ni-Kunni merchants have put forth plans to improve the
economic situation on the planet. Most center around completion of the
planet's terraformation, in order to enable local agriculture and water
supplies to meet and even exceed local demand. However, none of these
plans have proceeded past planning stages, and any proposal would need
to be authorized by Imperial authorities, many of whom do not believe
improving the planet is worth the cost.

Politics
--------

The Mishi system is nominally under the domain of the
[Kador Family](3ium7VluTCFnGS0TqpinlO). However, as the system is separated
from the rest of the Kador domains by quite a distance, it has been left
mostly to its own devices locally. Control of the planet is split
between several Holder families of Ni-Kunni descent. These Holders are
less wealthy and are on the lowest rung of the Amarr nobility and are
thus considered nothing more than minor actors in the Empire's politics.

Several wealthy Ni-Kunni merchant families wield almost as much power on
the planet as the Holders. Though they are legally commoners, and thus
have far fewer rights and privileges, their greater wealth give them
significant influence over the Holders. They are still bound to follow
the Holders' directives, but at least one Holder family has been ruined
after antagonizing the merchants. The Holder suddenly found all his
businesses dried up; his rivals on the planet eagerly gobbled up his
holdings following his fall.

The planet, much as with the rest of Aridia, is considered of little
consequence to the Empire at large, and tends to be ignored by Imperial
officials. While this gives the inhabitants a fair degree of freedom not
often seen in the Empire's core worlds, it also contributes majorly to
its relatively poor stature. Efforts to improve the planet economically
and socially tend to fall on deaf ears.

Name
----

The official name of the planet in Imperial registries is Mishi IV. The
ancestors of the Ni-Kunni called the planet by many different names,
depending on their tribe and local language. Many of these names were
religious in nature, meaning they have been deemed unsuitable for use in
the modern Empire. While there is occasionally some push to change the
planet's name to something more distinctive, there is much disagreement
on what name would be appropriate, and thus little concrete has been
decided.

See Also
--------
-   [Amarr Empire](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo)
-   [Ni-Kunni](5zoewV2VJJnYgvWj0Khn1K)
-   [Chronicle: Kameiras](2FmZpKvq77TKN9yPrfxYqq)

