# Keitan Yun
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/keitan-yun

Keitan Yun had a career as a respected lecturer and
[Minmatar](1rpu7pfwTPVznAczjw2pOp) historian at the Republic
University before he was approached by
[Karin Midular's](3KxlNVAeglPj5ZH0sf3U2j) cabinet to be the Matari
representative at the [CONCORD Assembly](5DPzMesjfj3XKshPWBUPWt) in Yulai.
His ardent introductory address saw him dismissed from his first
session, with the possibility of subsequent removal from politics. He
soon returned to Yulai asking that CONCORD and the DED
not interfere with the justice that the Minmatar sought from the
[Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo), backed by the threatening presence of a
significant portion of the Minmatar fleet that spearheaded the Elder
War.

Early Years
-----------

Keitan Yun was born on Eygfe III to itinerant labourers who travelled
seasonly looking for work. Due to his parent's struggles gaining a
steady income, he was initially home-schooled until his parents came to
realise that he had an intellect that was beyond their abilities to
nurture. He started attending public schools but struggled to reach his
full potential as his family could not stay in one area for too long,
and he was often bullied by the students of most of the schools he
attended. Keitan developed a slight stutter that only really manifested
itself when he was particularly stressed, but as soon as this was
discovered by his peers it often became the goal for his tormentors -
to make the usually erudite Yun start to stumble. Also thin and
possessing the same white pallor as other Sebiestor, he was a popular target for the
largely Brutor and Krusual youths of the rural communities that his parents joined. Academically
brilliant and possessing a maturity that was demonstrated by an ability
to easily associate with teachers, he quickly gained a reputation
amongst fellow students, regardless of where his family settled. As a
result Keitan spent a great deal of his time in the library of the
various schools he went to, growing to love books and the escape that
they often afforded him. While he was clever and articulate enough to
get his way out of situations when he wasn't struck by nerves, it was
usually the physical confrontations that he was defenseless against.
Keitan attests that he has always retained a deep-seated resentment of
oppression and persecution as a result of these early years.

As a teen he started to demonstrate his flair for public speaking,
strengthened as he tried to master his occasional stutter, and also
established a love of history. Fortunately, as his peers started to gain
maturity they began to recognize Yun's worldliness. While he was still a
target from time to time, he also started getting elected to student
councils and as a representative for the classes he joined. At home his
own personal library started to grow beyond the confines of his room and
on his desk he started a collection of scale models of Minmatar
warships, becoming a fan after studying the Vindication Wars.

Academic Career
---------------

Yun flourished when he started attending Republic University, scoring a
substantial financial grant to attend after he submitted a paper to a
reputed journal on The Battle of Tears while he was still in High
School. Finally he had a place that recognized his talents. After
completing his PhD he was offered a position as a lecturer at the
Republic University, initially in a campus in Nakugard. He quickly
established himself as a popular teacher, and student feedback listed
his passionate and thought-provoking lectures as one of the singular
reasons. Students across the campus started to attend, regardless of
their disciplines, to the point where his classes were moved to the
largest hall on campus to accommodate capacity crowds. While he lectured
on Minmatar history, Yun often spoke of the need to keep the oral
traditions and beliefs of his people alive, particularly in light of the
attempts to quash Minmatar cultural heritage that had taken place during
their subjugation by the Amarr. He repeatedly told students that there
was a need to repair the damage that had been done and that older
stories and practices needed to be revisited and retold in order to
preserve and enrich them. In the years that followed, Yun started
traveling from campus to campus across Metropolis and Heimatar,
attracting audiences that often resulted in the doors of many venues
being locked to prevent overcrowding.

While lecturing, Yun not only obtained other degrees by coursework, but
as honorary presentations from universities he visited. His reputation
also meant that he started gaining a political reputation, particularly
after he was almost arrested attending a protest at a heritage site in
Malukker developers were trying to clear for development. Keitan Yun has
several photographs of himself shaking hands with prominent political
figures, which usually take pride of place in his quarters alongside his
models and the rarer books in his collection.

Minmatar Ambassador in the CONCORD Assembly
-------------------------------------------

At the age of 42, Keitan Yun was approached by Midular to be the
Ambassador for the Minmatar people in the CONCORD Assembly. Reluctant at
first to leave academia, he decided that he would enter politics to
advise political figures as to how history had judged their
predecessors, and ensure that the developing government was aware of the
various ways that history often repeats itself.

His introductory address before the Assembly in the CONCORD Bureau
station above the ninth planet of the Yulai system was intended to be a
statement of truth and a declaration of his passion and understanding
for the plight of the tribes. Initially he received applause as he
began, calling for objectivity in a post-humanistic era that was
continuing to develop, though he then went on to state that amidst the
progress the "efforts to rise and conquer the fundamental challenges of
universal quality and human rights have failed". He made particular
reference to the "blatant hypocrisy" of having Amarr present at the same
Assembly - where all attendees were supposed to be talking about "the
alleged betterment of New Eden" - while they continued to enslave
Minmatar. Many were taken aback, particularly Larik Saal, the Amarr
Ambassador, who lambasted the "novice" and the "corrupt, spineless
leadership" of the Minmatar, calling for an immediate apology when the
moderator granted him right of reply. It was the moderator that ended up
excusing the comments, and when Yun himself chose to try and make a
counter-argument instead of concede, he was banned from the rest of the
session and threatened with expulsion from the Assembly.

Disgraced, Yun returned to the Republic to meet with Karin Midular and
[Maleatu Shakor](3H5EVyO9kiyIUOEELIqOlV) in Illuin. Midular was
exasperated with him but did not call for his resignation, instead
wanting to wait to see how the Amarr reacted. As he left the Prime
Minister's office, Shakor followed him and continued to express his
admiration, stating that whatever he'd said at the Assembly would not
have been well-received, even by the Minmatar contingent, as he believed
most of them were being bribed or threatened by [Dochuta Karsoth](1qDadkKQ3HzwYZpl2r4JLL) and his agents.

Ambassador of the Elders
------------------------

> "You will be our voice, to both your government, and to the Assembly
powers." - The Elders

Soon after his fall from political grace he was met by the mysterious
Ameline who, to Keitan's surprise, quoted parts of the conversation he
had just had with both Shakor and Prime Minister Midular. She escorted
him to the Great Wildlands region, which he noted were guarded by
Thukker, maligned by the other tribes at the time.
Here he was shown one staging area for the armada of the Elder Fleet,
spearheaded by a Ragnarok that was still under construction and the 12
Nalglfar that guarded it.

Aboard the titan he met the Elders, who commended him for speaking
publicly of the indignation of the Minmatar and the hypocrisy that
existed in the governance of the Empires. They believed that the
Republic would fail as it was a reinvention of the other nations, and
did not reflect the nature or beliefs of the tribal Matar. They also
revealed that the [Starkmanir](1L5eoorvzFUylWwag0xeQw) still existed
under the protection of the [Nefantar](1lfEcB4SdrV3EJIrmYWOK2), before they
designated him the Ambassador of the Elders. While Yun took issue with
the use of funds for rebuilding the Republic being used to create the
Elder Fleet he had just seen, he was honoured to represent the seven
embodiments of the Minmatar tribes, who he himself had lectured about
the realities of on many occasions, despite skepticism amongst his
audiences that they actually existed.

On Yun's return to Illuin, Shakor revealed that he was aware of the
Elders, and that he had been tasked with ensuring that Yun was the
Ambassador they were looking for. He stated that during surveillance he
had noted that Yun had accepted no women, stuck to routine, made no
travels apart from lectures and, most importantly, had a genuine loyal
devotion to the Minmatar. A singular obsession.

A Person of Interest
--------------------

Yun was ordered out of Midular's office during the deliberations that
surrounded the [Angel Cartel's](3p6aB4GMbVdMUEVYOb3kF0) occupation of
the Skarkon system, and on returning to his quarters survived an attempt
on his life by agents of Karsoth. On his return to Midular, who was now
facing a vote of no confidence initiated by Shakor, he requested that he
be allowed to contact CONCORD for permission to retaliate against
slavery, though he did not reveal this was at the behest of the Elders.
She threw him out.

Yun took this as a sign that his time with the Republic was over, and
now he was free to act on his own initiative to fulfil the will of the
Elders. He contacted Chair Speaker Pauksuo at CONCORD, indicating that
he wished to discuss the diplomatic and military options of the Republic
in advance of the declation of a state of emergency now that Midular was
facing a vote of no confidence. He also requested that DED
representation was also required, and so DED Admiral Kjersidur Elladall
was in attendance for what followed.

Yun took the opportunity to issue both authorities a warning. He
indicated that Karsoth had made an attempt on his life and stated again
that Minmatar had a right to defend themselves from Amarr subjugation,
especially now that they were sponsoring assassination. He asked both
representatives if they would interfere with Matar seeking justice. He
was about to be dismissed in response when a large section of the Elder
Fleet jumped through a cynosural field in Yulai, surrounding the station. For several tense moments CONCORD
ships mingled with the intimidating presence of fifteen Nalglfar-class
dreadnoughts and their cavalry of battleships, cruisers and assault
frigates. Keitan took the opportunity to stipulate that CONCORD and
the DED would have thirty days to reconsider their intention to
intervene if Minmatar started fighting against the Amarr. Following this
the threatening fleet departed, and Yun was soon announced by
CONCORD Chief of Staff Kivas Odakaas a "person of interest" in the
investigation that followed. For a time, Yun returned to the
Sanctuaries of the Elders, under the watchful eye of his Starkmanir
protector, Ameline.

The Elder Invasion
------------------

Despite being ousted from government, Yun returned to Matari space as
part of a small assassination team with the express purpose of
extracting Karin Midular and bringing her to the Sanctuaries following
the collapse of her government. It was also to protect her from the
shooting that was about to take place. Especially trained troops, armed
with evidence of the corruption of various politicians and staff within
Republic Parliament, were mobilizing to systematically remove agents of
Karsoth or those that had committed crimes against the Republic. As Yun
and his team made their way to the office of Karin Midular, they arrived
in time to intervene as two of her guards assaulted her. As the team
spirited the former Prime Minister to safety, Yun once again contacted
CONCORD.

30 days after Keitan Yun had presented his initial ultimatum, backed by
a show of force from the Elder Fleet, and spurred by the news of the
Starkmanir found on Halturzhan, he now contacted Yulai once more and
asked for their final decision as to whether they would intervene in an
Amarr-Minmatar conflict. When CONCORD and the DED decided to use the
opportunity to announce their intention to arrest him, Keitan shed a
tear. One of the Elder's theatre fleets jumped back into the system, and
as hostilities were initiated, pursued their sole purpose of knocking
out CONCORD's communications network so that they could not effectively
police New Eden. Without anyone to intercede, the Elder's fleet started
to invade Amarr with the intention of recovering the enslaved.

As Minmatar ships deserted their posts to fight in response to word of
what was happening, and as a flood of refugees fled a chaotic Republic
for Gallente space, borders were increasingly patrolled by the Republic
Fleet. Criminal groups had been targeting the civilians leaving the
beleaguered Republic, and many had been fired on during what came to be
known as the 'Day of Knives'. Yun, Midular and troops entering the
Republic against the tide were initially stopped at the border by Grand
Admiral Kasora Neko, who saw Yun as personally responsible, but she
eventually allowed them to pass. After her brief exchange with Keitan
and the former Prime Minister, Neko instead sent the majority of the
fleet to the borders of Derelik, anticipating a backlash to the upheaval
taking place.

As conflicts escalated throughout New Eden, and as assassination teams
killed corrupt guards, parliamentarians and dignitaries in the Republic,
leaving the evidence of their crimes on the bodies, Yun took Midular to
safety amidst the Elders. From the Wildlands, they monitored the
activities of the strike into Amarrian space , until the moment that
[Jamyl Sarum](6jGpYH3ai8pLLJboHVuA3L) decimated the Sarum theatre fleet
with her superweapon. The order to retreat was given, and as Republic
ships made their way back to Matari territory, CONCORD came back online.

For some time afterwards, still speaking as their representative, Keitan
Yun gave voice to the efforts of the Elders as they provided aide and
advice to a Republic seeking to rebuild, and welcome back thousands of
rescued Matari.

Current Status
--------------

Most recently, Yun has made contact with the leadership of the Tribal
Liberation Force on behalf of the Elders, congratulating them in their efforts against the Amarr in
regions such as The Great Wildlands, but also asking them to ensure that
they monitor the capsuleers and ensure that they are indeed advancing
the Minmatar cause and not just "being belligerent".

See also
--------

-   [Minmatar](40nl7pEhSb7UyCF6Px4fiY)
-   [Chronicle: Silent Furies](3yi2BMIz4SFExUpHSDHAA9)
-   [Elder Fleet](7JAFwYwGqzvPv7yLIDlfjp)
-   [Elder War](1AY43ZRuiApjXZuVWCllzV)
