# Sebiestor spiritual beliefs
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/sebiestor-spiritual-beliefs

As with most [Minmatar](1rpu7pfwTPVznAczjw2pOp), Sebiestor Spiritual Beliefs are largely
animistic, based around the principle that all entities or forces have a
spiritual essence. While this belief has evolved with the influence of
positivism and the development of each individual Sebiestor, the
essential ideas and practices have not altered from an essential
acceptance that unseen forces influence the tangible, elemental world
and that there are ritualized ways of controlling them. The culture also
focuses on the use of hallucinogens, talismans and symbolic iconography
to enhance or direct this influence, as well as the role of shamans, who
bridge the gap between the two worlds.

History
-------

The animistic force isn't necessarily a single entity as much as a
manifestation of whole essence, as one rock is representative of rocks
as a whole. When one asks a shaman to contact their ancestors, it is the
ancestor that best reflects the essence of his question or its answer
that is thought to respond. While Sebiestor belief acknowledges that
every individual journey is different, and that the details that
distinguish our lives should be shared and learned from, it is the
commonalities that need to be celebrated most. The purpose of our
journey is to guide one another and to draw on that guidance, even
beyond death.

The Sebiestor tribe was established in the arctic regions of Mikramurka
and many of their rituals, and underlying principles, can trace their
origins to the harsh life of the frozen steppes. Since life could often
result in deprivation and death if crops and hunting expeditions were
not particularly successful or environmental conditions were harsh the
Sebiestor sought explanations and rules that would provide them with at
least the illusion of control, particularly over the elements. Due to
its structure the Sebiestor belief system is considered a more
ritualized religious practice than those of the other more
individualistic Minmatar tribes, although it's built upon the same
essential elements. While it also centers around the shaman as a
significant figure it also seeks to empower each individual to seek
their own path. The belief system is also more isolationist and even
monastic due to the relative solitude that many lived in in the arctic
regions. They also have a fundamental belief that isolation and the
removal from the community are sources of valuable insight or learning
outside the context of the traditional tribe. Introspection is a key
trait that is cultivated and celebrated. The Sebiestor belief system has
centered around the practice of guided meditation for thousands of years
due the lifestyle that they adopted in antiquity. A Sebiestor is
encouraged to reflect upon life experience, and accumulate and record
knowledge and skills that will contribute to the betterment of the
individual and his tribe. This process has often been aided by the
instrumental use of hallucinogenics - particularly the much revered
rhizome of the Gahari plant, which grew abundantly in the caves of
Mikramurka and, increasingly, small doses of the poison of the Yetamo
lizard, brought to the steppes by the Vherokior. Unfortunately, pirate
groups such as the Guristas, the Serpentis and the Angel Cartel have
come to traffick in these hallucinogens, having whole complexes
dedicated to their distillation and distribution alongside other wares.

Essential Beliefs
-----------------

The Sebiestor belief system is based on the recognition of spiritual
essence, or resonance, that is recorded and drawn on throughout life's
journey towards a more complete understanding of it. There is no
singular godhead as much as an elevated state of consciousness that some
beings have achieved to a far more significant degree than others \- to
the point that their influence, ideas and even direct existence
continues beyond the veil of death. This is not to suggest that a
particular identity might persist beyond physical death, but instead
become part of the essence of several ideas that they were a conduit or
personification of in life. They contribute to an essence and may be the
progenitor of the form that it takes in the material world. Spirits are
seen as not only the manifestation of people that existed, but the most
appropriate representation of a spiritual essence for a particular
audience.

Sebiestor spiritual practices have core tenants that govern individual
practices. Principle is the notion that Sebiestor should seek alignment
with their essential or intuitive self, that they should respect the
wisdom and guidance of their elders and shamans, and that they should
devote themselves to the preservation of ancient customs, forces and
beliefs by making them real. The spiritual leader of the Sebiestor is
expected to work alongside their people for one week of every month,
engaged in the labours and trials of the everyday reality as readily as
they spend the rest of their life in spiritual pursuits. The entire
belief system is highly ritualized and while focused on identification
of the spiritual and reverent, still bases itself in the practicalities
of life and the hardships that were endured in the past.

Spiritual Sebiestor are the sum of their accumulated connections with
the other world. The material form of this other world can be
influenced, realized or chosen by those that have worked to attune
themselves with a mass of ideas, echoes, impressions and/or combined
wisdom. Each Sebiestor must seek to understand their path, and the path
of their ancestors, and realize it. The head of the spiritual community
are themselves the vessel of the combined wisdom of previous spiritual
leaders and she draws on who they were and what they came to represent.
A shaman is therefore the living conduit of those shaman before them and
they assume their combined experience and works in order to pass on as
much of it as possible in their own lifetime, both literally and
figuratively.

While the Sebiestor also pass on a great deal of their tradition orally,
they have traditionally recorded a great deal more on paper,
particularly in the volumes kept by spiritual leaders in their
respective Book of Todram, a personal journal. The Shamans of the
Sebiestor tribe have often gone to great pains in preserving and passing
on their knowledge to the following generation, though it is often
allegorical in nature rather than specific. While the oral tradition has
often taken a more traditional role in other tribes, allowing for some
natural development of their beliefs as they are passed down, many of
the Sebiestor rituals have altered little for hundreds of years, being
recorded quite precisely in various texts. The ideas are as adaptable as
those in other religions, but the day to day practices and concepts
change little and continue to provide a measure of stability despite
some of the antiquated notions at their heart. While spiritual leaders
may reinterpret some of the allegorical writings, the rituals at the
core of the Sebiestor practice are often steeped in traditions that do
not alter, and still adhere closely to their ancient tribal roots.

One tradition is the Festival of the Dead, a week where the spirits of
the ancestors are said to move amongst the living. Children are
instructed not to be frightened but recognise the opportunity this
presents. Many Sebiestor are encouraged to recognise all that have
passed during this time and offer them tributes, usually only in the
form of a statement made aloud recognising who they were and what they
meant to the Sebiestor or how they impacted their journey. Sebiestor
also traditionally wear black during this week and venerate the spirit
world through thought, action and written and spoken word.

The life of the spiritual Sebiestor involves rituals that are designed
to empower the individuals connections to the realm of pneuma, and to
draw on it to inform their own life, it's path, and the lives of all
those in the world around them. Every Sebiestor therefore seeks to align
two worlds and create bridges between them. They may seek recognition of
purpose over form, but are encouraged to recognise the sublime nature of
both. They are craftsmen and archivists seeking to bring an ideal into
full reality, but with recognition of the fact that the spiritual realm
is the goal and the material world simply the tool or path to be mapped,
harnessed and appreciated in the process of achieving it.

Ohnesh and Andesh
-----------------

The duality of the material and spiritual worlds influences the life of
every Sebiestor so much that their lives are governed by two states. One
is either alignment with their cardinal element, ancestry and
spirituality, known as Andesh, or disconnection from these essential
parts of life, and so entered into Ohnesh.

Neither state is particularly definitive, as each evolves as readily as
the individual Sebiestor themselves will throughout their lifetime. The
essential ingredient is a sense that all is as it should be in Andesh,
and somehow out of balance or chaotic in Ohnesh. Even this latter state
is instructional, however, and may provide inspiration or experience
from which to learn from, adjust or avoid, eventually guiding a
spiritual Minmatar towards a greater connection and understanding, and
so take the Matari to Andesh. Just as the Sebiestor are encouraged to
recognise that both material and spiritual worlds are both separate and
intrinsically interwoven, so these states are moved between throughout
one's journey. The understanding, however, is that the material world,
and the misery, anger or destruction of Ohnesh will eventually lead
every Sebiestor to an eventual and final unification with Andesh in
death.

The Elements
------------

Minmatar have always revered elemental forces, and this is particularly
true of the Sebiestor. These are cardinal essences that provide the most
direct influence over the natural world, and are revered as much as the
spirits of the people themselves. The elemental forces can actually
significantly impact on the development of an individual spirit and play
a part in their journey. Each Sebiestor needs to recognise their basic
elemental nature, and the color of their [voluval](13zCA6nzp0NyZy5x434r1M)
is important to them, as it can influence their identity as powerfully
as their clan and tribe. The four inks therefore reflect the elements of
Fire, Earth, Water and Pneuma.

Obviously fire is of great importance to the Sebiestor as it was this
basic elemental force that was linked intrinsically with the maintenance
of life. It is traditional for those that have passed to be purified in
flames and spread on the howling winds of the Mikramurka Steppes,
connecting them with all four essential elements. Fire, however, often
unlocks access to the other elements or transforms them. A death that
ends in fire is therefore seen as purifying, particularly for those that
are aligned with that particular elemental force. Some firey Sebiestor
capsuleers have therefore come to see each pod-death as a purification
that serves to unite them with Andesh as effectively as mortal death,
albeit briefly.

It is traditional for Sebiestor to be burnt on a pyre, and a location
was often set aside for that particular purpose. The only exception was
the death of the leader of a clan, or a significant figure, who was left
to the elements so that they might become one with the earth and be
offered to the predations of animals, particularly the
[Corovid](69paiEefNfXyN04h00BQjf), an avian of particular significance. Fire
was not required for those that were often seen as more spiritually
aligned, as they did not need to undergo the same transformation into
spiritual essence. It was a greater priority that these leaders offered
what they had possessed of the combined essential elemental forces back
to the earth. A funeral of this kind was therefore a great honor that
recognized that they had achieved the aim of bringing spiritual essence
into the material world.

Shaman
------

Respect for elders and shamans or leaders in the community is both a
combination of the reverence for accumulated wisdom and their ability to
impart lessons to those that listen. Even those whose mental and
physical faculties are failing them can still provide something that
almost needs to be decoded or incorporated into the audiences own life.
Like most Matari, the Sebiestor believe in the display of symbols and
the sharing of meaning and significance. Whether through the practice of
tattooing their bodies, or in their own writings or ability to formulate
and share wisdom, the Sebiestor are encouraged to look deeper into the
material world and to report back what they see of it's spiritual
underpinnings. The Sebiestor needs to make an honest reflection of their
life and what their journey is teaching them that could potentially be
shared or demonstrated to others, and this is a singular devotion for a
shaman.

Shamans are understood to be conduits whose clarity of purpose and
constant focus on the collective journey of themselves and their
community has allowed them to serve as direct conduit to the spirit
world. They're intuition and intellect is honed so that they are to be
consulted about decisions made by a clan or larger tribe. Every week a
Sebiestor shaman will remove themselves to a chosen site away from
settlements or cities, usually a cave or spiritual site, build a fire
and sit at it, consulting with the spirits. This is can be accompanied
by the consumption of hallucinogenics, but this is not always the case.
At this time they welcome all those that come to sit with them and will
engage them to help them move towards Andesh. Shamans have been known to
gather together at this time, and it's always expected that if one
shaman visits another it will involve one of these sessions. When
gathering collectively, especially in great numbers, shamans will
usually employ masks to emphasize that it is not the individual that is
important as much as the message and to prevent visitors from seeking
advice from a particular shaman. In reality, some masks will often be
associated with particular shaman over time. To overcome this shaman
will occasionally swap masks in a gathering and will occasionally
redecorate their mask if they're moved to. The only notable exception
has been the masks of the Elders, which have remained largely unchanged
for generations and are never removed in public.

One responsibility for shamans in a Sebiestor community was also to find
out who had angered the spirits and calm them. Communities or
individuals not recognize a spiritual space and not paying respect to
spirits would result in hauntings or at worst their transformation into
entities motivated by a desire for harm or ill fortune. This became a
more humanistic pastime for shamans, who counsel the parties involved to
determine where the negativity is being directed and instruct parties to
undergo ritual cleansing to help them dispel whatever was hanging over
them. This traditionally involves a period of exile from the offended
community and a return based around conciliation following a spiritual
journey or session with shaman.

As methods of storing and preserving food have developed with technology
the spiritual leader is tasked with maintaining rituals concerning food
stores so that they still preserve the religious core that existed in
the tribes antiquity when food was potentially scarce. This is has
become especially true of markets on orbital stations and ship mess
areas.

As much as Shaman are required for ceremony and rituals that were
originally based on preservation and mourning, the blessing (or segin)
of meaningful objects, the recognition of bonds within the clans, and
counselling those living with the very real possibility of death (which
has come to increasingly include capsuleer crews), they are also master
storytellers. In days past the Shaman passed the time for those
sheltering from the cold engaged in storytelling, and this tradition has
also persevered, particularly for children. It is their duty to
encourage the oral tradition by encouraging children to speak, create
and recognise the narrative structure at the heart of every Sebiestor's
personal journey.

Spiritual Sites
---------------

As with other Minmatar tribes, the Sebiestor have benefitted from a
dedicated effort to preserve and recover items and artifacts that
pertain to their spiritual tradition and the history infused within it.
In line with their tendency to select significant sites and mark them
also meant that troves of relics, mainly in the form of significant
texts and reflections, were secured during the Amarr invasion when it
became clear that their enslavers were destroying significant locations.
While these locales were often marked with particular symbols, the
Sebiestor shared the same practice as Vherokior and Thukker tribes in
that they usually placed these troves away from camps, towns or cities
in areas that needed to be journeyed to, as an allegory for the
excursion of life. As a result, while sites in populated areas were
destroyed, many of the buried treasures of the Sebiestor hidden atop
mountain passes, in mounds or in ice caverns, were largely untouched by
Amarr. This is true of the site of the Nochgefror Shrine, the sprawling
monastic temple of glass, stone and engineered quartz that serves as the
traditional home of the tribes spiritual leader, as well as the many
burial sites or caves where young Sebiestor were expected to journey to
during the ritual that marked their spiritual coming of age. In
recognition of their passage to adulthood each teen was given a crafted
box, traditionally ivory or bone of some kind, etched with a symbol of
particular significance and wrapped in velvet or hide, which contained a
portion of Gahari or the poison of the Yetamo. This gift was presented
at a shaman's fire also attended by the person intended to be their
essence instructor, who would guide them towards their Test of Destiny,
or Voluval. Afterwards they were asked to wander in isolation, consuming
the contents of the box, returning to the fire the next week where their
essence instructor would be waiting to talk about what they'd learned.
While this ritual is no longer a requirement many Sebiestor living in
orbit will still send youths to terrestrial sites for it.

Signs and Symbols
-----------------

The Sebiestor are, like most Matari, people of iconography and
symbolism. They are encouraged to not only tattoo themselves, but have
been known to leave markers or symbols in places of particular
significance. Their lexicon of symbols is quite extensive, and has it's
roots in a basic vocabulary of signs that can still be witnessed in
protected caves on Pator where the art became a means of passing the
time when freezing winds and storms kept tribesmen inside for long
periods.

It is not uncommon to find a particular sign in a Sebiestor's personal
quarters, or etched somewhere in a station, informing others familiar
with it as to who the person is and what they align themselves with, or
what has been noted about the environment. In many stations not
sympathetic to the Sebiestor belief system these markings are classified
as graffiti and have resulted in charges of property damage, but
stations where there is a significant Sebiestor presence usually have
designated areas where Sebiestor can leave particular iconography. These
boards, walls or signposts are usually found close to hangers and
docking bays or trading areas and markets, so that visitors can peruse
them or contribute to them in order to transcribe insights into the
collective 'story' being told within that station. This practice is
usually protected, as there have been cases where corporations and
station administrators have employed Sebiestor to label them positively
and eliminate anything that might negatively reflect on the internal
politics of their establishment. Controversies have occasionally
resulted in legal action, such as the protracted case in YC98 where the
manager of a Nurtura plantation in the Vorsk system attempted to sue
Sebiestor who had been leaving derogatory references to him around the
station, identifying him with symbolic representations of perverse
lechery.

Importance of Music and Dance
-----------------------------

In spiritual practices there is a tradition of low sounds such as
dirges, long meditative odes, and deep, resonant throat-singing. These
are combined with cries, rhythmic choruses and chanting and the use of
unique instrumentation. The spiritual Sebiestor value music that is
intended to encourage trance, relaxation and reflection.

The most significant tool of the Sebiestor musician inside and outside
their beliefs is the use of the voice and its modulation. Sebiestor
music is most commonly described as haunting, deep and reverberating,
and this is especially true of its employment in spiritual practice. One
of the common elements of the music produced for ceremony has been the
use of binaural sound, usually through vocalization but also
instrumentation. This has been linked with the earliest tunes produced,
which used the natural environment of a cave, cavern or shelter to play
with sound so that it either resonated from a particular part of the
natural space, or it could not be determined exactly where the noise
originated from as to represent a sound from 'another place'. The slow
drum, still preferably made from animal skin, is used to this day to set
a beat, and instruments that combine elements of chime, gong or
similarly resonant tone are commonly used. It's also common for wind
instruments to be employed, not only capturing breath but the natural
winds like those that would sweep the tundra.

The Anirmiak is the most significant instrument. Traditionally made of a
mixture of skin and bone, though now constructed with synthetic
equivalents, this instrument requires minimal manipulation and is
therefore accessible to every Sebiestor. The instrument harnesses the
presence of natural winds to produce a rhythmic and eerie sound from
several different conduits, or artificial 'throats'. Due to modulation
and enhancement the music can mimic distant moaning voices, humming,
song or even cries depending on its positioning and the strength of the
winds. The instrument was traditionally placed at the entrance to a cave
or placed in the open near a campsite as Sebiestor went to sleep or were
reflective, to either 'speak' to them as they rested or meditated or to
literally 'sing' of their surroundings, rousing them from slumber should
the winds become so intense as to warn of an impending snowstorm. The
instrument is also used to make music of the winds outside caves, which
could unsettle young children. Sebiestor funerals also employ the use of
the Anirmiak, where the assembled mourners will listen to the song of
the same winds that disperse the departed's ashes, or those that howl
around the highly-elevated and exposed locations used for the offering
of a chieftain or significant figure.

As with other Minmatar tribes there is a great oral tradition and the
collection of songs about the tribes beliefs and history are part of the
memeplex that survived Amarr attempts to eradicate their culture. Many
of the songs of the spiritual Sebiestor are based on communicating
significant ideas and often deep emotions. While Sebiestor culture as a
whole celebrates significant figures or details moments from the past,
mostly key battles between between the ancient tribes, songs here detail
conflicts within the soul, aides to meditation and the instructional
journeys of spiritual leaders or guides. Music also became a greater
part of religious practice as it was one of the most significant methods
of preserving and communicating spiritual knowledge during Amarr
occupation, as well as strengthening the bonds within communities.
Traditional beliefs may have slight variations amongst the different
clans but essentially there has been little deviation from the primary
elements encoded within lyrics and what may appear to be senseless
chanting. It was far less likely for gatherings of Sebiestor slaves to
have their songs silenced as opposed to a readily apparent discussion of
traditional beliefs. Music was actually often encouraged, particularly
on long work duties where it was important to maintain morale without
the use of brute force.

Sebiestor spiritual dance is less overtly sensual but still incorporates
many of the fluid elements of other traditional cultural dances. It
matches the musical influence and often involves very stylized but slow
stomping, stretching and rolling that are meant to exhibit flexibility.
A performance that is literally seeking to root itself in the earth and
pose defiantly while reaching, bending and moving with the desire to
reach the continual andesh of spiritual existence. The dances of the
Sebiestor are often performed in a small space, around a fire, or during
elemental events when the spirit of the Sebiestor rejoices or challenges
the beauty and lethality of the storm, flood, winds, etc. The body is
used to tell a story that represents the life journey of the individual
Sebiestor or expresses their essence, so whereas there are
characteristic and very ritualized movements and poses, the dancer moves
with the whims of the music and flow of the environment, akin to their
beliefs themselves.

Relationship with other religions
---------------------------------

[Gallente](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK) - Sebiestor have a strong alignment with
several of the principles of the [Intaki](5DUTZnySsYNmzbNQVPGXZn). While they
don't believe in the strict reincarnation of singular entities, they do
acknowledge the possibility that an essence may choose to once again
share itself with the material world. Not every soul will be born again,
but they may pass their wisdom on to others who come after them, that
achieves the same goals but on a more general level. It is the essence
that is passed on rather than the singular identity. The Sebiestor may
consider the soul a personification of a particular essence that recurs
across lifetimes, such as their spiritual leader, who serves as an apex
or meeting point for many spiritual elements.

Overall the Sebiestor, as with most Minmatar, are aligned with the
personal liberties at the heart of Gallente [culture](3KPzZojLPGemwl6JBzGZBr). Keen to express and
explore themselves freely the Sebiestor belief system aligns itself with
the potential of a libertarian culture but recognises the dangers for
excess as well. Extremes can cloud the personal journey and actually
draw Sebiestor into a potentially self-abusive ohnesh.

[Caldari](7unGNsrMFwIWXMMbrM2jfy) \- Sebiestor beliefs and ways of life mean
that they often enjoy the company and philosophy of the
[Achura](4zhtMkBDe0W8xX2ihsfnik). Both foster introverted practice, encourage
a detachment from the material, and have increasingly become nomadic,
traveling New Eden in pursuit of purpose and realization. Culturally,
however, the spiritual Sebiestor appreciate the utility of the Caldari
way of life, primarily sacrifice to a greater sense of community and
purpose, but frequently balk at the concept of state over individual. It
is recognised that this may of course be part of one's own spiritual
journey, which many Sebiestor in the service of the megacorporations
have argued is the case.

[Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) \- While it is uncommon for free Sebiestor to
easily adopt the beliefs of the race that enslaved their ancestors and
destroyed many of the practices and sites that defined their religion,
there are commonalities. An acknowledgement of the spiritual world,
devotion to the immaterial, actualization of the higher self and
recognition of a spirit that would pass into another kingdom mean that
many of the essential principles are aligned with the beliefs of the
Amarr. The first significant difference is the adoption of the central
godhead, though many Sebiestor refer to the God of the Amarr as Andesh,
combining the figure and the spiritual ideal. The second distinction is
that whereas the Amarr seek to limit self-indulgence the Sebiestor
belief system promotes self-governance and tolerance and may permit
questionable acts as a means for testing one's limits and learning more
of one's spiritual destiny.

Recent Developments
-------------------

[Vuld Haupt](1clrLuFFV50EpAEzxYx6Zt) has pioneered a ritual that focuses
on examining the impact of capsuleer technology on beliefs, and
reuniting it with the beliefs and practices of his people. The
traditional segin, or blessing, of a person's material form as a means
of wishing them good luck in their journey, or reuniting them with the
spiritual world. Sebiestor actually approached religious leaders seeking
a blessing of their cloning vats.

See Also
--------

-   [Vuld Haupt](1clrLuFFV50EpAEzxYx6Zt)
-   [The Ray of Matar](6ppoF0BO3tLhrkivsxSKsC)
-   [Voluval](13zCA6nzp0NyZy5x434r1M)
-   [Corovid](69paiEefNfXyN04h00BQjf)
