# Planetary Vehicles
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/planetary-vehicles

**Planetary vehicles** are a broad term for any self-propelled, personal
vehicle designed to work on a planet, in contrast to spaceships or
station vehicles. In common parlance, the term planetary vehicle usually
refers specifically to high-tech, personal transports, though the term
can also be applied to antiques such as airplanes and automobiles.

History
-------

Planetary vehicles have been independently developed by virtually ever
civilization in [New Eden](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk). Their
development tends to coincide with the development of the steam engine,
with early models typically being large vehicles used for commercial or
industrial work. From there, planetary vehicles diverged depending on
local customs and resource availability. On planets such as [Caldari Prime](1yEhptNaSoG42YRSay711i), which lacked large scale fossil fuel
resources, steam engines continued to be the primary power source until
high-power electrical engines were developed. Conversely, on [Gallente Prime](41JbD6M3Keq024T44ULv7a), the abundance of fossil fuels allowed
for the utilization of internal combustion engines.

Early models of planetary vehicles took many disparate forms, though all
had a few components in common; wheels, a steering mechanism, and a
braking mechanism. Four-wheeled models proved the most popular on most
planets, though two-, three-, and six-or-more-wheeled devices all filled
a variety of niches and functions depending on local conditions and
needs. In the early days, the vehicles were dangerous to both passengers
and pedestrians. Safety improvements were perhaps the driving force
behind many innovations in design.

As technology advanced, planetary vehicles only changed slightly. Most
changes went toward making the vehicles more energy efficient, safer,
and cheaper for the consumer. A major innovation was the development of
[hover technology](4VDHQyfA7oKLZmtQ90lJNb), typically through
electromagnetism or gravity manipulation. No large-scale changes to
vehicular design have emerged since, with most alterations being done
for stylistic reasons.

Availability
------------

Planetary vehicles are available on virtually all planets with
populations of note. Remote settlements, however, must often rely on
imported vehicles from off-world, increasing their cost and limiting
their market. These planets tend to utilize older models of vehicle,
with only the core regions having access to the latest models.

Because there exist a wide variety of inhabited planets in New Eden, a
large number of different models of planetary vehicle have been
developed. The most widespread are, of course, models designed to work
on a terrestrial planet with a nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere of roughly one
bar pressure. However, models for use on atmosphereless barrens, ocean
worlds, storm planets, and even gas giants exist. The more unusual the
planet, the more expensive the model is; a vehicle that can operate on a
plasma planet with a methane-dominated atmosphere could cost several
dozen times the amount a standard vehicle might.

Wheeled vehicles remain the most widespread designs, owing to their
simplicity, relative safety, and affordability. Most consumers have
little need for the added maneuverability of hover vehicles, while
tracked vehicles tend to only see use in extremely rugged terrain. Hover
vehicles, however, are widely popular among the more well-off; budget
models are affordable for upper-middle class families and those
lower-middle class families who don't mind paying off long-term loans.

Cultural Impact
---------------

Learning to drive a planetary vehicle is typically seen as a rite of
passage for teenagers in most cultures of New Eden. Regulations vary
from planet to planet, though most limit legal operation of planetary
vehicles to those in their late teens who have passed driving tests and
attained a license. More wealthy communities often couple this rite with
the purchase of a child's first vehicle of his own, while those from
poorer areas must often make due with sharing a family vehicle.

The latest models of vehicle are often glamorized in holovids. This has
led to the popular perception from outsiders that every Gallente owned
their own hover vehicle, as blockbuster vids almost exclusively featured
them. The connection of stylish, luxurious automobiles has been so
firmly tied with the Gallente that luxury vehicles are often referred to
as "Gallente" even if they are manufactured by non-Gallente
companies.

Manufacture
-----------

Numerous companies manufacture planetary vehicles. Most are limited in
scope to the single planet they operate on, or perhaps a single solar
system. Manufacturers that cater to an interstellar market typically
target only the high-end consumer, producing luxury vehicles. Among the
most successful luxury manufacturers are
[NOH](4Ykng1Buej1uH3Sy5ln3jW), 
[Noble Appliances](1LELInZwtDNM4IZ7Nh0OZz), and 
[Quafe](ssPYMESgTyz1rl4fTojD6).

More recently, [capsuleers](15umOALoFBZxVS2oaggvJQ) have entered the
planetary vehicle market, utilizing their development of planetary
resources. Because of the limited use of planetary vehicles to the
space-based capsuleers, creation of these vehicles tends to be done
mainly as a sort of hobby. Reaction to the quality of these vehicles
throughout the industry has been mixed.

See Also
--------

-   [Transportation technology](1atx3NGYkl3oP5JiEa1ShQ#transport)
