# Warp Drives
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/warp-drives

All space ships are equipped with a **warp drive** device. The warp
drive creates depleted vacuum by repeatedly 'compressing' vacuum between
two polar discs, draining all energy neutrons and quarks out of it. A
laser-locked field is then created to hold the ever-increasing depleted
vacuum bubble until it has enveloped the whole ship. When that happens
the ship is able to enter FTL speed.

Although initial experiments with the warp drive were very encouraging
technology wise, problems arose in regard to navigation. Once the ship
has attained FTL speed, it is very difficult for it to act or react to
the world, such as for communication or scanning purposes. Numerous
experiments were made, for example with compactified dimensions radio,
but without success. The unpredictable nature of quantum mechanics made
it very difficult to create a stable enough vacuum bubbles to allow for
precise time measurements due to fluctuating speeds.

Finally, a solution was found. It was discovered that gravity capacitors
similar to the control system used in [stargates](416pCzXGIwn2Tt7feZYSpk)
were able to pick up gravity signals from 'normal' space while the ship
was on FTL speed. By locking the capacitor onto one of these signals,
the ship travels to it. The bubble is then automatically dispersed once
certain distance from the gravity well is acquired. The only problem is
that these capacitors can only efficiently pick up signals from gravity
wells of certain size or above, with the minimum being a small moon or a
cluster of asteroids. Also, in order for the gravity capacitor to align
correctly on the destination object in relevance to the position of the
sun, it must follow a relatively narrow route towards it, resulting in a
fairly restricted emerge area for the ship.

This puts some limits on the warp drive's usage, but as all major
objects in a system can be detected, this is not such a great problem.
Furthermore, it is now possible to construct 'fake' gravity wells on
space stations and stargates, which can be detected and thus homed onto
by the gravity capacitor that is part of a ship's warp drive.

See Also
--------

-   [Ship technology](48m1MzBSlszXi5as24fECM)
-   [Stargates](416pCzXGIwn2Tt7feZYSpk)
