# Drifters
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/drifters

The latest presumed threat to descend upon [New Eden](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk),
the **Drifters** are still a mystery
in many ways. One thing that seems certain is that their technology far
outstrips that available to the Empires and thus every attempt should be
made to learn more. With this in mind the following data has been
compiled.

Observatories
-------------

The first hint of a possible threat came in two forms: the presence of
Circadian Seekers in systems throughout New Eden and immense cloaked
structures. Over time the cloaking on these structured failed, revealing
them and allowing them to be identified as Jove Observatories. The exact
link between the Drifters and the observatories is as yet not
understood.

It is notable that much of their efforts involve the seeming protection
and harvesting of these structures, many of which are now in a state of
disrepair. Work on the Entosis links and their deployment to Capsuleers
has revealed a data-store going back several decades. It is clear
therefore that the empires have been under observation for quite some
time by the presumed missing Jovians and, additionally, that the
Drifters covet the information thus gleaned.

Unidentified Wormholes
----------------------
Located in close proximity to several of the observatories, these wormholes seem
to be technologically generated and stabilized by the Drifters using
Sleeper technology, as the various structures located around the
periphery have been identified as "Sleeper Thermoelectric Converter" and
"Sleeper Multiplex Forwarder".

While at first Capsuleers could not enter these wormholes, something
unknown has recently changed, and the wormholes can now be used by
capsuleer ships. They seem to lead to new systems that are populated by
sleeper enclaves of various types, more wormholes, spacial rifts - some
that seem to be guarded by numerous weapons platforms (now inactive) -
as well as other unknown structures and sites. These new systems have
been confirmed as the same systems from which the Helen Tukoss broadcast
originated (as his body was recently found there by a search
expedition). However, while many Drifter ships are still present, the
large armada he reported about is no longer there. Much exploration of
these new regions is needed. The Drifter activity in these systems seem
to hint of an unclear relationship with the sleepers. they use Sleeper
tech and may even prey upon the sleepers themselves.

Circadian Seekers
-----------------

In tandem with the
appearance of the cloaked structures, capsuleers across the cluster
reported the emergence of Circadian Seekers. These unusual
[Sleeper](sleepers) craft appear to be drones rather than
manned vessels and it has been speculated that they are in fact scouts
gathering data. Their tendency to visibly scan any object they encounter
would seem to verify this as well as scanning (or maybe even downloading
info to) the Jovian Observatories.

Battleships
-----------

With the uncloaking of the towers came the appearance of the first of
what we term the "Drifter Battleships". These sleek vessels bear little
resemblance to any we have encountered thus far and seem to evince a
level of technology many claim we cannot hope to match. As of yet no
vessels have been captured intact but some research into them has been
conducted.

The first and most obvious study was their status of aggression, or
rules of engagement as it were. There have been conflicting reports but
the following seems certain:

If a site of operations is approached, such as an Observatory or Unknown
Wormhole, the Drifters will engage, If fired upon, the Drifters will
return fire. If a pilot engages the Drifters, they will pursue that
pilot. they will at times come and agress a pilot that is in combat with
a Seeker.

As far as their technology is concerned field reports offer information
as to their capabilities. Firstly they do not seem to use conventional
drive technology and occasionally display a light curtain 'Skirt'
between the antennas around the rear of the ship when not moving or
moving slowly. Secondly the battleships seem to be equipped with two
shield systems. Upon fully breaching the so-called "Overshield" the
Drifter ships deploy what many are calling some sort of 'doomsday
device' akin to that equipped to our titans. One speculation would
suggest that a fail-safe prevents it from firing if the outer shield
layer is intact. Alternatively the outer shield may in fact not be a
shield but is acting as a siphon/converter, storing the energy of the
incoming weapon's fire. Which is then released in one strong blast of
energy at the attacker, which also breaks the targeting lock of the
attacking ship.

The speed of these battleships is rather remarkable considering the
protections they employ. Some reports put their orbit velocity as within
the region of 2-2.5 km/s. These reports would also suggest that the
optimal range of their ship to ship weaponry is in the region of 17
kilometersl. Combat reports filed by those who have managed to survive
the retaliatory fire indicate that although their primary weapon is
capable of destroying a large vessel in one firing, it seems to have a
long recharge for whatever source powers it. This does not render the
vessels toothless however as their secondary weaponry is purportedly
just as deadly if unprepared for it.

In spite of this superlative offensive capacity and the multi-layered
defenses; reports indicate that their ships are wholly reliant on their
shields for protection and that once breached neither hull nor armor
offer significant resistance to an assault. Thus it may be assumed that
if a weakness in the shields is identified, such as the electromagnetic
weakness inherent in much of our own shield technologies, their defenses
may rapidly crumble.

As far as defending against their "Super weapon" is concerned, it
appears that whilst the Drifters possess many technological marvels,
they are not immune to that most Caldari of strategies, ECM.



