# Deteis
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/deteis

The **Deteis** are regarded
as the face of leadership in [Caldari](7unGNsrMFwIWXMMbrM2jfy) society.
Commonly possessed of sharp, ordered minds and articulate tongues, they
are mostly found in positions of authority within military and political
spheres. Driven by the cultural premise that the good of the whole must
come before the needs of the individual, they have made the
responsibility of upholding the integrity of the entire Caldari State
their own.

Racial Traits
-------------

Able to quickly assimilate the essential data of any situation, the male
Deteis is a strategic thinker, but is also a stickler for rules and
regulations. While somewhat vulnerable to bureaucratic formalities, the
Deteis male tends to do everything by the book - but does so to impose
order and stability wherever he goes.

Female Deteis tend be composed individuals with a wry sense of humor and
a no-nonsense outlook on life. Highly intelligent and ambitious, they
are much more receptive to bending the rules than their male
counterparts, provided the reason is sufficient justification on behalf
of the greater good.

Ancestries
----------

### Tube Child

Acutely aware of the small population of the Caldari State versus the
sprawling [Gallente Federation](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK) a generation ago,
the Deteis once utilized artificial procreation to increase their
population. While this program is no longer sponsored by the State, the
Tube Children of today were raised in inhospitable, government-run
orphanages. Many are fiercely independent, strong individuals loyal to
the Caldari State.

### Scientists

The Deteis beautifully combine efficiency with inventiveness, which
makes them superb researchers and scientists. Between these talents and
their cultural determination, the Caldari State is leading innovator of
bleeding-edge technology.

### Merchandisers

The Deteis love nothing more than having complete control over their
enterprises, especially industrial production. They seek personal
mastery of every aspect of the process, all the way from the procurement
of raw materials to the manufacturing and marketing of the final goods.

See Also
--------
- [The Caldari State](7unGNsrMFwIWXMMbrM2jfy)
- [Caldari bloodlines](66DZ1ki1bXUJvHXqg3Bebt)
