# Station Air Conditioning
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/station-air-conditioning

**Station air conditioning** refers to a variety of systems that keeps
[space stations](space-stations) cool. In a vacuum, cooling
is a much more difficult problem than heating and many different
solutions have arisen to combat it. Modern systems are energy efficient,
quick-acting, and highly automated, making life on board a a space
station as comfortable (and at times more comfortable) than life
planetside.

Heat Generation
---------------

Space stations build up heat in a variety of ways. The most common
method is through direct sunlight. Depending on a station's distance
from the local star, the star's luminosity, and the station's orbit
around its celestial, direct sunlight can be a major source of heat or
contribute next to none. Stations far from the star, or in the shadow of
their celestial, rarely need to worry about solar heating, while it is a
major concern for those close-in and day-side.

Stations also generate their own heat, through their local power plants.
Stations with high energy requirements can generate extreme temperatures
in their reactor rooms, often in the realm of several thousand degrees
Kelvin. This heat must be dissipated somehow, else it can cause even the
coldest station to quickly overheat.

Finally, humans and space ships are a small but not-insignificant source
of heat. Stations that get high amounts of traffic can see their
internal temperatures increase by several degrees simply from body heat
and space ship exhaust if proper precautions aren't taken beforehand.

Cooling
-------

The vast majority of stations cool themselves through simple thermal
radiation. Heat pumps inside the stations carry gas or liquid coolants
throughout the station, which is then carried to large radiator fins
outside of the station. The coolant is allowed to radiate its heat out
into space, then is recycled back into the station to start the process
over again.

This system can be quite complex. For stations that rotate or orbit a
celestial body, the radiator fins rotate so they are always in the
station's shadow. Outside of the direct light of the sun, in the vacuum
of space, temperatures quickly drop to match the cosmic background
temperature, allowing cooling to occur even when an entire side of the
station is bathed in sunlight.

However, for some stations close to extremely hot stars, simple thermal
radiation via heat sinks is not sufficient to keep the station cool. In
these cases, there are a variety of solutions. Some stations simply have
small thrusters on them to keep them in the shadow of their celestial.
Others simply vent their coolant directly into space, carrying away
accumulated heat. In this case, a station requires a massive supply of
coolant to replace that vented into space.

Both methods have their drawbacks. Venting coolant is expensive and also
requires cleanup to keep large amounts of waste coolant from collecting
in globules outside of the station. Moving a station can disrupt local
traffic and requires constant monitoring.

Finally, some stations are equipped with highly reflective surfaces that
simply reflect solar radiation off into space. These reflective panels
must be constantly kept clean, else their ability to disperse heat is
sorely diminished.

See Also
--------

-   [Stations and orbital technology](2qtjPWHmmUS1ochdVGMFx1)
-   [Chronicle: Godflesh](3plaqb1gNf8mcrjJOW5urb)
