# Palpis VI
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/palpis-vi

**Palpis VI** is a temperate planet with many unique forms of life, such
as the [fedo](1ZTrrDLEL9V2OvHNc8NMkY) and the
[blackfowl](3UkdFgZAbL4xiqRSCwthdg).

Historical Background
---------------------

Palpis VI was discovered around 22000 AD by the
[Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo), who appear to have been the first to settle
the planet. Though originally seeing a massive influx of settlers,
mostly commoners eager to obtain land and improve their standing within
Amarr society, the population level on Palpis VI has remained relatively
stable since then. Society on Palpis VI is extremely rural, even by
Empire standards.

With the discovery of the fedo, the economy of the planet underwent
a small boom. This turned out to be short-lived however, as the fedos'
reproductive speed soon meant they were easily obtainable elsewhere. A
similar fate befell the planets other main export, the blackfowl.

A landmark in the system, an abandoned shipwreck, is a stark reminder of
the relative isolation of Palpis VI. With its nineteen moons combined
with the thirty moons of its two closest neighbors, space traffic has
always remained light around the planet, and no large stations have ever
been anchored in its orbit. As it is the only inhabited planet in
Palpis, the system has remained largely undeveloped, and not a single
station of note has been established, though Palpis VI's third moon does
a small scientific base on its dark side.

Orbit and Climate
-----------------

Palpis VI, the largest planet in the Palpis system, orbits the star at a
distance of 4.364 AU, taking 322.4 days to complete a full orbit. Palpis
VI is the only temperate planet in its system. It has an average surface
temperature of 306.08 K, or 32.93 Celsius. Except for extreme locations
(deserts, poles), the temperature range is compatible with human
activities, falling between 243.15 K and 323.15 K, or -30 and +50
Celsius.

Tectonic Plates
---------------

Despite having a relatively high gravity for a temperate planet, there
is very little tectonic activity. The core of the planet is solid,
comprised of iron and nickel. The mantle surrounding the core is thick
and semi-solid, allowing the hundreds of tectonic plates to migrate
slowly across the surface over a period of millions of years.

Continents
----------

There are four continents on Palpis VI, Arad, Bahmardor, Pahallal, and
Umahel.

### Arad

This is the main continent on Palpis VI, though not the biggest. Sitting
just north of the planets equator, Arad displays a large variety of
habitats, from rising mountain chains, the highest on Palpis VI, to
sprawling deserts. Much of the continent is home to a sprawling network
of caves that play host to many unique forms of life, such as the fedo.

This continent has been heavily colonized by the Amarr, though the
settlements here have all remained fairly rural, with the exception of
the main city of Kewshhrstan.

### Bahmardor

Bahmardor is the largest of the continents on Palpis VI, though, due to
both the high levels of alkali in the soil, and the surrounding seas
high in ammonia, it is also the most lifeless. Situated near the south
pole, the average annual temperature hovers at -45 Celcius, or 228.15
Kelvin.

### Pahallal

Pahallal, near the northern pole is usually considered to encompass many
of the islands around it, though technically it is on its own tectonic
plate.

### Umahel

Umahel is the second most populated continent on Palpis VI. It is also
the most industrialized, as 90% of the planet's mining industry is
located here.

Oceans
------

The hydrosphere of Palpis VI is divided into six oceans, with four of
them being salt water. Palhapa is the second largest ocean, and is
comprised of fresh water. The largest of the oceans, Kemtr, can be found
surrounding the southern pole, and is unique in that it is extremely
high in ammonia.

Orbital Bodies
--------------

Palpis VI, like the other middle planets in the system, is host to
numerous orbital bodies, having 19 moons. Most of these are
unremarkable, though one is host to a metal tolerant cryophile, a
microbe capable of tolerating high levels of metal, while thriving in
sub-zero environments. The microbe was discovered living in a large
hydro-carbon lake on the third moon, and has been much studied by Amarr
scientists.

See Also
--------
-   [Blackfowl](3UkdFgZAbL4xiqRSCwthdg)
-   [Fedo](1ZTrrDLEL9V2OvHNc8NMkY)
-   [Chronicle: Fedo](5vXRRw5WFv0cu5OUhLKBtE)
