# Caretaker Drone
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/caretaker-drone

**Caretaker drones** are automated servants that are typically used to
assist the infirm and sick in place of human nurses. They can provide a
variety of functions, such as washing, cleaning, assisting with
movement, and administering medicine.

History
-------

Caretaker drones were first invented by the
[Gallente](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK), though precursor technology existed
among the [Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) for centuries. The Amarr caretakers
were little more than remote-controlled robots that could replicate some
of the more mechanical functions of nurses, but were unable to complete
more complex tasks or deal with any unusual circumstances.

The Gallente developed their caretaker drones independently of the
Amarr, but the underlying principles are nearly identical. As with the
Amarr, the earliest caretakers were robots that could assist nurses with
difficult tasks, but always required a human operator to guide them. As
[drone](3o5QhCbx71nILKNnW9S7v1) technology became more advanced, the
caretakers were able to slowly replace human nurses entirely.

Originally used primarily with high-need patients, caretaker drones are
now found across [New Eden](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk) in hospitals
and nursing homes.

Technology
----------

Caretaker drones are, at their core, relatively simple devices. Most
take a vaguely humanoid shape, with two arms, a torso, and a head with a
"face". Some have legs for locomotion, but many use treads or
antigravity lifts for more efficient movement. Earlier drones were
decidedly non-human and possessed a variety of forms; typically this
meant several spider-like appendages and clusters of probes. However,
these drones were found to be highly distressing, especially to children
and patients with dementia, and were replaced with the more-familiar
humanoid drones common today. These older drones still see some use as
assistants to human nurses and in poverty-stricken areas where newer
models cannot be afforded.

The drones are programmed to anticipate the needs of patients rather
than simply respond to their requests. They are fast enough to notice
slight changes in posture or expression that might indicate an oncoming
fall or attack and react to minimize the risk of patient injury. They
can additionally aid patients in dressing and undressing, as well as
moving and cleaning bedridden patients to prevent the development of bed
sores.

More advanced caretaker drones, typically those employed by wealthy
recluses for home care, are capable of such complicated tasks as
selecting outfits, preparing meals, and cleaning the home. When these
sort of drones are used in households that do not contain the sick, they
are referred to as housekeeper drones.

Usage
-----

Caretaker drones are typically used in hospitals and nursing homes in
high population areas that are not particularly wealthy. They replicate
the functions of a human nursing staff, replacing them almost entirely.
However, they are almost always supplemented by a number of human nurses
who are more capable of dealing with unforeseen events and
complications. A typical large hospital in the Federation may have one
nurse for every dozen caretaker drone.

The drones have not replaced human nurses among private hospitals and
nursing homes for the wealthy. This is because many consider the drones
unnerving and slightly off putting compared to a human nurse. The
caretaker drones are also unable to provide emotional support, though
some patients have been known to form emotional bonds with their
caretaker drones. This makes them less desired than human nurses for
those who can afford to pay the extra cost having a human touch entails.
While such institutions may still employ a number of caretaker drones,
these are typically only supplementary and assist nurses in difficult
tasks.

See Also
--------
-   [Chronicle: World on Fire](Pia0KJL08KBbLeNY2IJyO)
