# Sani Sabik
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/sani-sabik

The phrase **Sani Sabik** (ancient [Amarr](6BPFRy27fN4LnYlIyzvEwo) for "Blood Seed")
is the collective term for several different heretical offshoots of the
mainstream Amarr religion. The sects are all descended from a common
outlawed branch and are united primarily in their use of blood in their
religious rituals. Though once a notable, if grim, branch off the
mainstream faith in the Empire, the sect was suppressed by religious
authorities for thousands of years. The expansion of the Empire and
contact with other races has caused the religion to spread and splinter
into numerous factions.

History
-------

The original Sani Sabik cult arose thousands of years ago on [Amarr Prime](bHRN1rfoBSiLCOFANsGI4) during the early days of the
[Reclaiming](70QLNGRwCwHUgmcjTmuhsA). Based on excerpts from the
[Scriptures](tWsGYkfVxuvQDdt57cCUp) that had been used to justify the
Reclaiming, the [Emperor](3Akx6UWUOJM90aQeaPgDtJ), and the rise of the
[Holder](dO9vxs4a40LrzJyoq2L8v) class, the Sani Sabik faith embraced two
central dogmas. The first was that certain people were born destined for
greatness, with all others existing solely to serve and breed these
savants. The second was that immortality was attainable by these
savants.

The cult began innocuously, being little more than an offshoot of the
orthodoxy. As the religion grew and mutated, however, it gathered more
followers. Commoners viewed the concept of savants as something that
transcended traditional caste divisions, while Holders eagerly promoted
themselves as savants and sought to extend their own lives through
rituals.

Eventually, the sect began using blood in their rituals and turned to
grisly practices to acquire it. Criminals, [slaves](slavery),
and even commoners were sacrificed in the name of purification and
immortality. The cult had gained such notoriety that its existence began
to threaten the orthodoxy and the religiously based power of the Emperor
himself, who ordered the cult exterminated.

Though many, the cult was no match for the Church's inquisitors and was
soon shattered. The few adherents who escaped were forced into hiding,
carrying on their practices in isolated cells. Every few decades, the
Church would uncover a growing colony of Sani Sabik adherents and
cleanse them.

The cult remained suppressed for thousands of years, until the Amarr
first reached the stars and spread beyond their home world. Suddenly
presented with the opportunity to grow away from the watchful eye of the
Church, small groups of Sani Sabik departed for parts unknown, to settle
new colonies and build their strength.

One such group departed soon after spaceflight was developed, using
primitive [cryo-ships](3JbAbU0M7HPiAdm6mGTKQ8) to settle far from the
Amarr homeworld in the Araz constellation. These early settlers founded
the [Takmahl](3Xi3M3G5tNTRfcqYESe5aP) empire, which grew to great
technological heights within a few hundred years. The empire, however,
floundered and eventually collapsed under its own religion, leaving
behind only scattered relics.

Other groups departed later, spreading to isolated colonies where the
law could not easily find them. Separated from each other, these cults
each developed in their own ways. Some reverted to primitive, savage
societies that caricatured the Amarr hierarchy, with divinely-viewed
priests using the blood of their followers in extensive, sometimes
medically-related rituals.Others flourished and began prowling the
space lanes as pirates. Some sects even found their way to the other
races of [New Eden](5m9PDmbyzmRXdP1vvQETRk), founding offshoot
sects in places such as the [Gallente Federation](4bufc5OaK80rlo20Pez6gK).

Today, there exist numerous separate cults throughout New Eden. The most
prominent group is the [Blood Raiders](7obiU8rOyJkPZ3S0Faxc5W),
who have provided the most public knowledge of the Sani Sabik. While the
Blood Raiders have given the cult a gruesome image, other cults remain
passive and exist legally outside the Empire. Still others remain in
hiding inside the Empire, where they are constantly at risk of detection
and detainment.

Rituals and beliefs
-------------------

Individual Sani Sabik cults may differ from each other in wildly
divergent ways, but all have three things in common.

The most notable commonality is the usage of blood in the majority of
their rituals. Originally, blood was only used as part of an initiation
ritual, but it soon became the focal point of Sani Sabik rituals in a
process known as [blooding](5UHvE5Sg9PIgO0JfgIkMqa). Followers view
blood as the essence of life and spirituality and believe that it has
mystical powers. The exact nature of these powers and how blood is used
differs widely between sects.

Among some of the more gruesome cults, blood is drained from outsiders
and the unwilling and consumed as a form of sacrament. The Blood
Raiders perform massive raids and kidnap individuals to form "blood
farms." They formerly blooded children as they supposedly had "purer"
blood, though under [Omir Sarikusa](6UYaNpBPqY1ls1ps78PPPt), they
turned to the blood of clones for similar reasons. A sect gaining
traction in the Gallente Federation exchanges blood between members
willingly.

The second commonality is the belief in savants, individuals who are
greater than their fellow man and capable of great achievements. The
nature of these savants varies from sect to sect, with some following
closely to the Amarr tradition of the chosen being born that way. The
Blood Raiders view the practice more liberally, considering anyone
strong enough to embrace the Blood Raider lifestyle worthy of being
called one of the chosen. Such a belief is found in many of
the other sects scattered across New Eden and is especially appealing to
Amarr commoners, who seek to rise above their restrictive stations.

The third commonality is that immortality is attainable, either
spiritually or physically, through adherence to the Sani Sabik rituals.
While tied closely to the belief in savants, it is considered separate.
A belief in physical immortality was long in decline, though the
propagation of life-extending [implants](cybernetic-implants)
and [cloning](5y5CUyA9h4xXY40dInhn3o) techniques has brought its resurgence.
Far more common is a belief in spiritual immortality, that through
partaking in blooding and other Sani Sabik rituals, a person can become
exempt from judgment and achieve eternal life and happiness after death.
