# Transneural Burning Scanner
Published on  at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/transneural-burning-scanner

The **transneural burning scanner** is a device that copies a
[capsuleer's](15umOALoFBZxVS2oaggvJQ) brain information at the moment of
[pod](2klMsyfd5quK05XnGL9wNB) breach. The device is necessarily quick acting
and destroys the brain in the process of scanning. It is a vital part of
the cloning process that renders capsuleers effectively immortal.

History
-------

The earliest brain scan technology was developed in YC20 by researchers
with [Zainou Biotech](4bKBzWAifvRRbnXs3i9ZnE) under the direction of Todo
Kirkinen. Kirkinen himself utilized the technology to transfer his mind
into a machine, though the technology was relatively crude by today's
standards. It was slow, had difficulty penetrating deeply into the
brain's center, and caused some damage to the brain's tissues. Thus the
technology was, at its inception, used mainly to record the memories of
the terminally ill.

Later refinement to the technology sped up the process and increased its
accuracy, but also greatly increased the damage done by the device. It
left animal test subjects completely brain dead, destroying all but the
body's autonomic functions. Therefore, its use was only approved for
those who were in imminent danger of death.

However, there were many difficulties ensuring the proper function of
the scanner outside of highly controlled environments. As they are quite
bulky, they are not able to be worn and must instead be mounted near the
user at all times. Scanners mounted on planetary vehicles often reacted
to false stimuli and went off early, resulting in living but brain dead
people, or went off too late, failing to capture the living brain
patterns before death. As such, they saw their scope limited to
certain hospitals and laboratories.

It wasn't until [Ishukone Corporation](7gc0ekpgJoQ3hygIB6ocHI)
bought out Zainou that the transneural burning scanner came into wider
use. Developers at Ishukone recognized that the capsule was the perfect
controlled environment for the scanner. There needed be only equipment
to register a pod breach, as even the slightest breach in the pod's skin
is a death sentence. The transneural burning scanner could then be
calibrated to go off at the precise moment of pod breach, giving it just
enough time to copy the brain's information before death.

The full marriage of the capsule with the transneural burning scanner,
and subsequently cloning, was accomplished in
[YC105](7fPQjSvh0UicNGNdh3nVkd).

Technology
----------

The transneural burning scanner utilizes a combination of magnetic
resonance imaging and emission tomography to quickly acquire a detailed
scan of the brain down to the quantum level. In order to have a complete
and accurate map of the brain and retain the all memories and
personality, the scan must record the position of every atom.

Because this process must be completed in a matter of seconds, the
process is incredibly damaging to the brain's grey matter. It causes
numerous lesions and cell death, reducing the brain to little more than
a blob of biomass. Because of this, the transneural burning scanner is
only utilized at the moment before death.

The information obtained from the transneural burning scanner is then
transmitted to the cortex constructor, which uses the data to
reconstruct the brain.

See Also
--------
-   [Cloning](5y5CUyA9h4xXY40dInhn3o)
