# Citizens demand the release of scientists - Kor-Azor remains silent
Published on 2004-02-19T18:04:32 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/citizens-demand-the-release-of-scientists-kor-azor-remains-silent

Following the news of Articio Kor-Azor buying the Crielere scientists from 'Rabbit' Kosakami, a growing wave of protest has been rising from citizens of both the Gallente federation and the Caldari state.   
  
Despite the fact that there has so far been no evidence of the scientists actually being enslaved by the Kor-Azor heir, the demands for their release is getting louder - especially on the Gallente side, where people whisper that the president is getting ready to propose economic sanctions against Amarr.   
  
A few apologists are still attempting to whitewash Articio, saying that he might have altruistic motives, but they mostly fall on deaf ears. And why wouldn't they - after all, the Amarr are well known for their slavery.   
  
Of course, there are those who find the whole situation more than a little ironic.   
  
_"Finally they agree on something. This is rich...the moment someone other than a minmatar is enslaved, they all get their panties in a bunch."_ said **Muton Sviad** , an agent of the Republic fleet. _"I'm fairly sure the Caldari wouldn't even be bothered at all, if it wasn't for the possibility of them missing out on fancy new technologies. Don't quote me on that one, by the way."_   
  
Still no word from the emperor. The clock is ticking.
