# Doriam decides to move Tal-Romon cathedral to Amarr Prime
Published on 2004-05-10T16:38:09 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/doriam-decides-to-move-tal-romon-cathedral-to-amarr-prime

Amarr Emperor Doriam II has stunned his people by declaring that the notorious Tal-Romon Cathedral on Eclipticum will be dismantled piece by piece and moved to Amarr Prime, there to be reconstructed on a holy ground on the Amarr continent itself. While the shock of Doriam’s decision to seize the cathedral from its rightful owner, the heir Catiz Tash-Murkon, is still reverberating through the upper echelons of Amarr society these latest news are bound to stir things up even further.   
  
Experts on Amarrian politics have started reading into the signs these news are sending. The move is bound to please the religiously faithful, for the honor done to St. Tal-Romon. The move is also seen as an attempt by Doriam to distance himself further from his son, silencing the cries of favoritism that have haunted him since his inauguration. But what remains to be seen is how Catiz Tash-Murkon will respond to this development. While she may be glad that her fellow Udorian is being honored in such a manner, this move further undermines her authority and guarantees that no compromise solution will be found. The precedent has now been set for an Amarr Emperor to impinge upon an heir’s property at his whim, something the rich Tash-Murkon family is not likely to take sitting down.   
  
Work has already started on carefully dismantling the cathedral and according to a representative from the Imperial Chancellor overseeing the project it’s expected that Amarrian pilots will be recruited in ferrying the building to Amarr Prime, as they have already stated their devotion to the holy place, probably because St. Tal-Romon is the patron of adventurers and those filled with wanderlust. Further information regarding this is to be released in the next few days.
