# Advances in Warp Field Inversion Generation Allow Significant Increases in Warp Speeds
Published on 2004-03-24T22:45:54 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/advances-in-warp-field-inversion-generation-allow-significant-increases-in-warp-speeds

CONCORD surprised billions by releasing microcode revisions to warp core hardware that allow for much greater travel speeds for certain vessel types. “After exhaustive safety testing and extensive computer modeling, we have determined that advances in warp field mathematics are safe and effective for use in existing equipment, and so have released this code to the public.” The new firmware code allows the generation of “cleaner” warp fields, resulting in much faster travel.   
  
New insights into the interaction between so-called “gummy attractor” particles allow significant decreases in the field density of generated warp fields, allowing objects below a certain mass-to-volume threshold travel through space inside warp fields moving at a significantly increased rate.   
  
Geld Odling, acting as scientific advisor for CONCORD’s Public Relations department, attempted to explain the breakthrough to a crowd of reporters in CONCORD’s Istodard IX, Moon 5 office. “All warp fields are essentially ‘depleted’ energy bubbles, with a positive and negative charge generated by gummy attractor flow along the axis of travel, which is determined by adductor generator plates rotating in relation to each other inside a ship’s warp core. These new findings allow tunings and refinements in how these plates ‘pulse,’ which generate cleaner fields, which therefore travel faster. It’s the whole field—not just the ship—that’s moving through space.” The findings, rumored to be part of an abandoned research project from the now-defunct Crielere Labs institution, allow a higher stable pulse rate in warp core generators.   
  
The generation of more and higher velocity “gummy attractors,” or particles which interact with and influence the “color force” in subatomic particles, create more highly charged “depletion fields,” which move through space at much higher rates of speed. These depletion fields are generated by gluon manipulation. Gluons are “massless” elementary particles that bind subatomic particles together and are ultimately believed to be responsible for the stability of atomic nuclei. Gummy attractors exist in a sub-gluon state, generating the same sort of subatomic attraction among hadrons—a quark-gluon particle—and gluons. Unlike the “absolute” nature of gluon attraction, these “gummy particles” have some “give” to them, hence their name. The gummy particles allow “hand off” and “flow” of gluons and hadrons, resulting in energy fields of very low subatomic density.   
  
The creation of these cleaner fields is currently limited to objects of a certain density. “A lot of the math is over my head—this wasn’t my exact field of study at Pator Tech,” said Odling, “but what I’ve been told by the experts is that this basically means objects of a certain density can have these fields generated around them, but if an object has too much mass in relation to its displacement volume, these fields aren’t stable and can lead to some unpredictable effects. Effectively, this means all current frigate-class hulls, because of their size, and industrial-class hulls, because of their relative mass, have received the new microcode allowing faster warp travel. Smaller ships will travel more quickly, at about twice the previous speed, and larger ships will see a gain of about one-and-one-half previous speeds.”   
  
As is usual in the release of firm- or software revisions, the new instructions are transmitted to ships from stargates whenever they launch, dock, or make use of stargates for interstellar travel. Most ships currently in operation should already have received the firmware upgrade at the time of this writing.
