# DED Urges Pod Pilot Help Decyphering Message
Published on 2006-02-14T19:53:29 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/ded-urges-pod-pilot-help-decyphering-message

Following the recent increase in the activities of the Serpentis Corporation, the DED has been keeping records of comm transmissions originating from the Phoenix constellation, marking high priority messages and attempting to decrypt them for valuable intelligence. So far, the DED has had marginal success, receiving several routine shipment orders and a few personal communications to loved ones. 

Today, the DED released the following transmission originating from the headquarters of the Serpentis Corporation. They ask for pod pilot groups in Serpentis space and the regions surrounding Fountain to assist in decrypting the message as well as interpreting the meaning. When asked if the DED had any idea what this message contained, our contact replied, “Unfortunately, during decryption the message was corrupted and much of the data was lost. However, we believe that the contents of this message will directly affect those groups living near Serpentis space.” 

The message was decrypted into the following: 

Thk Skrpkntks Cvrpvritkvn ks ... nkw mirkkts ... ihkr mirkkt shirk. Whklk ver R&D; Dkvksk ... midk skinkfkcint ... rkcknt dkskins, thk bvvstkr in ... rkkt cvntkneks tv iirnkr thk lkvn's shi ... rvfkt. Wk irk cerrkntly ... tikk ... kkinty vf ... Rkni frvm thk ... vr fiklkni thit, tv ... mirkkt shi ... w cvrrkdvr fvr ... Plickd rkikvn. Thk birk mknkmem Skr ... hkps thrveih ... tkvns fvr stiikni, ind ... cet vf yver prvfkts. 

Fvl ... xitkvn vf ... kni, thk Skrpk ... rk kn pirtnkrshkp wkth Thk ... stwhklk lkidkr ... pvritkvn wkll iikn cvntrvl vf nemkr ... ch tv dvck ind skll iv ... wkll skt ep drei mirkkts k ... hk prvfkts wkll hivk tv iv tv th ... it ks icckptiblk fv ... kd prvfkt mirikns. 

Fvllvwk ... nktritkvn kn th ... ni ind Syn ... kvns vf spic ... kntks Cvrpvritkvn wkll ittkmpt tv kncrki ... ksknck kn th ... ikvn vf spick. Th ... kdkritkvn ks wkt ... kdknt, ind entkl vnk ippki ... vintiik vf thk cvn ... vrdkr pitrvl.
