# Billionaire Dies, Leaves Unusual Request in Will
Published on 2006-05-06T00:00:00 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/billionaire-dies-leaves-unusual-request-in-will

The famed Gallente businessman, entrepeneur and playboy Ruevo Aram has just passed at the age of 173. Admired by the intellectual society for his skill at solving seemingly unsolvable riddles. Known for his wild behavior and rumoured to have ties deep within the Gallente government, he will be missed by many.  
  
In his will, he left this message:  
  
_"At the time of my death, one person will have a chance to make history. In the event of my death, ninety-eight percent of my wealth is to be transferred to the government of the Caldari Sate, they have their orders on what to do with it. The rest will go to the first person who solves these eleven riddles:  
  
_  
1 _  
You might not heed this advice or care  
do not go into HED  
it's guaranteed that somebody's there  
to fill your body with lead._  
  
2 _  
Twenty-two trustworthy men  
in a popular traders den  
mysterious number four  
opens this magical door._  
  
3 _  
Coming and laying their tents  
causing shouts and creating dents  
holding their ground for weeks  
reaching their peaks  
until the coming of tweaks._  
4 _  
Once friends  
once learning  
now fiends  
now burning  
forever._  
  
5 _  
Down in Stain  
there lies a system  
with one way in  
it is most eastern_  
  
6 _  
Many a travellers dream  
as hopeless at it may seem  
a friend of mine named Gep  
is the closest you'll ever get._  
  
7 _  
She foiled their plan  
and most of them ran  
it did not last  
this empire of the past._  
  
8 _  
Fast deployment and swift results  
they'll work for whoever pays  
a night stalkers honor heavily weighs  
on the orders he gets and obey's._  
  
9 _  
To do is to be  
to do is me  
machine I am  
scientist I am  
or rather, was._  
  
10 _  
A highly dangerous place  
you'll find the next clue  
hidden away  
close to the diamond ace._  
  
11 _  
A purple Amarr to the south  
deep in the empire's mouth.  
above the sea with two ways in  
find this system and win."_  
  
  
Whatever these riddles mean, or where they lead, this reporter cannot tell. Just how large Ruevo's fortune was remains uncertain, although it is believed to have been in the hundreds of billions.   
  
More information can be found on the GalNet forums.
