# Numerous Gas Clouds discovered in low security space
Published on 2007-11-06T14:32:26 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/numerous-gas-clouds-discovered-in-low-security-space

AMEVYNC: Scientists working for Poteque Pharmaceuticals have reported the discovery of numerous gas clouds in the constellations of Amevync and Elerelle. Though the exact nature of these gas clouds have not been fully verified, Proteque scientists are performing numerous tests on the clouds, hoping that the clouds will contain high quality gaseous compounds that may allow significant breakthroughs in medical research.

"The clouds were found almost by accident," said Tertlaert Auste, spokesperson for Poteque. "An unaffiliated pilot was out search for hidden asteroid pockets, when he stumbled upon a small gas cloud. The pilot told an acquaintance of his who works for Poteque, who then reported it to his superiors. We immediately sent out a survey team to investigate, who have discovered large numbers of proto-clouds in both constellations."

Interstellar gas clouds have a long and controversial history in the biotechnology sector. Many associate the gas clouds with illegal booster production and, indeed, that is one of the reason gas clouds in Empire space are so difficult to come by. During the period when boosters were still legal, virtually all documented clouds were completely exhausted by over-harvesting. For decades, the only known clouds were located deep in unsecured space, and their locations were jealously guarded by the various pirate groups. Recently, a number of large gas clouds on the outer edges of the cluster have been discovered by explorers, but they remain out of the reach of legitimate businesses such as Poteque Pharmaceuticals.

"The gases that can be harvested from the clouds out on the rim could have huge medical potential," Mr. Auste explained. "Yes, everyone hears gas clouds and thinks boosters - but really, that's not the be all, end all of the gas clouds. With proper research, we may find that we can cure numerous diseases with the gases harvested from the clouds. Unfortunately, the various organizations laying claim to the key sectors have been reluctant to co-operate, so we've never been able to get to them. This discovery has the potential to change that."

Mr. Auste cautioned against making any immediate assumptions about the clouds. "People have been reporting the discover of gas clouds in secure space for decades. In all cases so far, the clouds have either turned out to be composed of inert, common gases or been so thin that they were barely able to provide enough gas for laboratory samples before they dissipated." He remained optimistic about the clouds found in Amevync and Elerelle, however. "We do have reason to believe these are the real deal. We'll just have to wait and see."
