# Duvolle Labs Release Details At Press Conference
Published on 2007-11-29T17:07:46 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/duvolle-labs-release-details-at-press-conference

This morning, Duvolle Labs convened a press conference at their corporate headquarters to present further technological details regarding the revolutionary hardpoint systems demonstrated several days ago. Also on the order of business was announcing the completion of the bidding for the technology system from the three other empire research and development corporations. The highest bidding corporations are the Carthum Conglomerate, Lai Dai Corporation, and Boundless Creation. 

Having secured their partnerships, Duvolle Laboratories proceeded to deliver more details on the technology behind the hardpoint systems that have left media technological analysts drooling the last few days. "Simply put," began Marreti Forbes, spokesman for Duvolle Laboratories, "we have made one hardpoint into two." Met with curious expressions, he continued in depth to explain how a dual-hardpoint system and an advanced power management system have been employed in conjunction with updated control software. Components from a secondary hardpoint installed onto the weapon mounts are used to regulate the power routing, tracking and targeting software as well as other subsystems, allowing for increased damage power. The development of this system was, however, not without much trial and error as the development proceeded over the course of this year. "The software was the final piece of the puzzle." He added proudly. "All of our hardware modifications had run into a dead end, as the power levels obtained from the hardware output fell way short of our expectations. One of our inspired software technicians solved the issue." Technical details aside, the software has been adapted using code from the Siege Module used on Dreadnoughts. While the hardware systems are customised on a Dreadnought to work the more advanced features of the Siege Module, Duvolle Labs have been able to acquire a similar increase in damage on the weapon systems of their prototype Battleships. 

When asked about why the various prototypes appear to have only four weapons points, Mr Forbes explained that they require substantially more power to run. "We could only do so much to boost the power core of every prototype ship we applied the technology to. If we had applied this to more hardpoints then there would be no power left for the modules being fitted to the ship." 

Visibly eager to promote the more positive aspects of the ship, he reminded everyone that four weapons now have the power output of eight weapons so nothing has been sacrificed. "The more valuable aspect of this technology means that a reduction in crew stations required for weapons subsystem controls, as well as the advanced automation used in the regulation of the complex hardpoint technology, has freed interior space in the ship. With some bulkhead modification to the primary skeleton of the ship, we see a significant increase in cargo space. Not only that, but you still have several remaining standard hardpoints for utility modules." A further highlight of the new ship class is an increase in combat longevity, attributed in the main to the decrease in weapon hardpoints and consequent reduction in ammunition consumption. 

Asking about the advanced automation in the hardpoint systems by a representative from the Caldari Advanced Weapons Portfolio technology journal, Mr Forbes relayed these further details. "The dual-hardpoint weapon mounts operate on a very complex power management system." He elaborated. "The usual approach of pod pilot technology, coupled with a manual crew has always proven itself to be eminently proficient at managing multiple ship systems. However, this system as it stands places much more workload on that working relationship, especially in the heat of an engagement. Given this, it was considered a much safer approach to develop highly advanced automated regulation for the new systems, assisting with pilot and crew management." 

As the conference drew to a close, the partner corporations refused to give details on the specific features of their finished ships until development was completed. It is expected that the remaining work on these projects will last no more than one or two weeks.
