# Admiral Jonar calls TLF to defend Aset
Published on 2008-11-03T18:37:13 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/admiral-jonar-calls-tlf-to-defend-aset

::: TRANSMISSION FROM ADMIRAL JONAR OF THE REPUBLIC FLEET :::

::: TO ALL TRIBAL LIBERATION FORCE PILOTS :::

Pilots of the TLF,

An undertaking of gravest importance lies before us today. The Amarr Empire has gained access to confidential information about the disaster on the asteroid mine in Aset. They've jumped to some alarming conclusions, and taken action which has forced us into a defensive position. Following is your briefing on the situation at hand. This is for your eyes only.

According to our experts, the collapse was caused by an item of unknown origin buried deep within the asteroid's core. We believe the excavations of our mining team activated it, but we won't be able to gather conclusive data until we have retrieved the item and rescued the miners who are still trapped down there.

Our scientists and techs are convinced this item is the cause of the power outages and equipment failures  we have been experiencing. We are working as fast as we can to get those miners out and retrieve the item from the rock, but we need to retain space superiority for this. If the enemy is able to take control of the system we will have to abandon our efforts.

The gold-backed bastards are likely to throw everything they've got at this system. We must repel them. I will repeat this for emphasis: we must repel them. Failure is out of the question. They cannot be allowed to gain a foothold here. 

Mother Matar relies on your wings this day. Do not let her down.

Admiral Jonar

Republic Fleet
