# Federation Delegation Arrives in Malkalen
Published on 2008-05-15T11:29:58 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/federation-delegation-arrives-in-malkalen

Malkalen – For the first time since the end of the Gallente-Caldari War, a procession of Federation Navy warships entered Caldari Space, only this time flying a banner of peace. Met by Ishukone Watch ships at the Border Zone, civilian and military ships alike paused to watch the majestic Nyx-class super carrier and her escorts as it traveled to Malkalen. 

"I’ve never seen one in person before," admitted one Caldari Navy officer, who preferred to remain anonymous. "That’s one impressive looking ship. Not as impressive as one of our own Wyverns, of course. But impressive." 

The Caldari Navy harbors a great deal of respect for Admiral Alexander Noir, the pilot of the Nyx and the last living veteran of the war. He has since become a spokesman for improving the relationship between the two nations, undoubtedly selected for this summit because of his years of advocating peace. 

"We wouldn’t let just anyone fly a capital ship into the heart of our space," stated Caldari Navy Fleet Admiral Morda Engsten. "Admiral Noir has done more to bridge our differences with the Federation than anyone else. We are honored to have him, as with the entire delegation." 

Federation Economic Minister Wadis Chene and the members of her team left the carrier in a shuttle and docked at Ishukone Headquarters Station moments ago, where she was welcomed aboard by Otro Gariushi.
