# Economic Summit Underway
Published on 2008-05-15T00:00:00 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/economic-summit-underway

Malkalen - To the enthusiastic applause of all in attendance, including the hundreds of reporters and camera drones present, Federation Economic Minister Wadis Chene and Ishukone CEO Otro Gariushi began the session with an embrace. The emotional welcoming was symbolic of the two nations' efforts to reduce racial tensions and strengthen economic ties. Also in attendance were various guests from Ishukone, all of whom expressed interest in meeting with Federation delegates in advance. 

Following the handshakes, the summit commenced with a question and answer session with Otro Gariushi and Wadis Chene. Both officials expressed deep regret at the recent escalations in ethnic violence, conceded mutual blame for its origins, and accepted responsibility in taking the necessary steps to prevent it from happening again. 

When asked directly if he was attempting to supersede Tibus Heth's aggressive 'power play' entrance into Caldari politics, Otro Gariushi answered that he "wasn't aware of any power contests in this part of the State", drawing a chuckle from the audience that quickly evolved into full-blown cheering from the Ishukone crowd. More seriously, he added that he planned to hold Tibus at his word to give the peace process a chance. 

A gala reception began following the session. Formal negotiations will begin tomorrow, during which time details about the proposal will be released to media channels.
