# Attempted assassination reignites debate inside Federation
Published on 2008-04-04T20:52:28 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/attempted-assassination-reignites-debate-inside-federation

The attempt made days ago on the life of Chamberlain Dochuta Karsoth has sparked renewed foreign policy debate inside Federation borders. Both in the corridors of power and amongst ordinary citizens, many have come forward to express often starkly contrasting opinions on how best to handle matters when it comes to the troubled Empire.

With a huge Minmatar subsection comprising Federation society that is only growing larger by the day, there was much festivity and even outright mockery of the recent challenges confronting both Chamberlain Karsoth and the Empire at large. In a few of the larger cities, streets were filled with impromptu rallies that used the event to renew calls for change inside the monolithic nation-state. Crowds consisting of predominantly Minmatar immigrants and Jin-Mei students waved placards and shouted chants of “Finish the job!”

This reaction lay in complete opposition to another perspective, championed largely by Intaki citizens, who expressed a deep concern with any change brought about by violence. Various influential Intaki-led political institutions and lobby groups pressed the case for the Federation to seek change only through diplomatic means. Some even called on the President to publicly condemn the assassination attempt. 

“Any change achieved through violent means is illusory at best,” stated Sieri Therese, an Intaki-born student who lives near Avey Square on Luminaire IV, where one of the rallies was held. “Anyone who wishes for violence upon their fellow man is no better than a common thug. It was such a depressing sight to see my own people calling for such things and even reveling in the thought.”

Her comments were echoed by the lobby group “Peace by Peace”, a grassroots movement founded a year ago by billionaire Intaki artist Kirae Eillen, who authored a statement shortly after the news of the assassination attempt broke.

“At this time we feel it best to remind the citizens of the Federation, and indeed the cluster at large, that true change cannot be forced or coerced. Diplomacy and the evident strengths of viable, tangible alternatives are the only truly effective and lasting catalysts for progress in a modern society. By the same token however, we submit to Chamberlain Karsoth that there is a reason for the recent attempt made on his life. He must pay closer attention to the people he has been tasked to represent.”

Speaking on the matter to the Federation networks, University of Caille professor Saul Cassel, an expert on the various political institutions across the nations, claimed that the assassination attempt was “just the latest symptom of a deeply broken system.”

“Even if they do not realize it, the people of Amarr are struggling against a tyranny and oppression which is rife amongst the institutions of power inside that nation,” he said. 

“The Amarrians are more than entitled to their religious beliefs and no sensible person would deny them such. What any rational individual must take issue with, however, is the way in which their religion is used as nothing more than a blunt political instrument, a means through which to oppress and silence dissent, to make a grab for power and privilege and then abuse it. It is this dire political situation that is driving such regrettable actions as we have seen.”

Cassel refuted the claims made by many that the situation was simply a power struggle, stating “I think that would be an overly glib analysis…it is far more than that. It is clearly a people realising that in such corrupted soil, the seeds of democracy cannot be sown. They will cleanse the earth with blood if they have to and that much is becoming increasingly apparent as their representatives take drastic actions, all too aware that they have a popular mandate to do so.”

So far there has been little official comment on the matter outside of a brief and carefully worded press release delivered yesterday by Presidential spokesman Yuri Meureux, who had been continually mobbed by the media as they pressed for a comment from Foiritain himself. 

“Whilst we understand the renewed concerns and are closely listening to each and every perspective, there is nothing further to say on the matter at this point in time. We will continue to work tirelessly towards a measured and constructive foreign policy approach, just as we have always done. In a democracy decisions are not made until sufficient time has passed for each voice to be heard and considered.”

Many have interpreted the remarks as a careful sidestepping of the issue, as the President tries to avoid alienating one side or the other. It is undoubtedly a difficult situation for him and other political and legislative officials, who must carefully balance the fears and hopes of a wildly divergent populace that has grown more fragmented in recent years. Where some call for diplomatic resolution, others rally for more direct methods, pointing to the Federation’s growing economic might to be used more assertively. 

It is assumed from the press release that for the time being, however, the President and others will be keen to see the current level of commotion die down and continue talks on the matter in calmer times.
