# Tash-Murkon economy soars in the midst of cluster-wide turmoil
Published on 2008-08-10T11:29:43 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/tash-murkon-economy-soars-in-the-midst-of-cluster-wide-turmoil

Tash-Murkon Prime - Economic reports from the Tash-Murkon region indicate that the fiefdom is experiencing growth and stability despite the violence spreading through the rest of the cluster. Nearly all industries have seen a steady surge in earnings over the past month that contrasts with the instability found in other markets.

Carthum Conglomerate, which has stations in four systems in the region, released an earnings report that shows their Tash-Murkon holdings are earning profits 13% greater than the company-wide average. Imperial Shipments reports that it has seen a 37% increase in shipping contracts through the Tash-Murkon region, contrasted to a 3% drop in other regions as private firms increasingly move their business to capsuleers and other neutral contractors. Also of note, Noble Appliances has reported that orders from the Tash-Murkon region have nearly doubled, while orders from the rest of the Empire have remained more or less steady.

These reports mirror ones across the economic spectrum in the Empire. While the Empire overall has seen a small growth in economic output since the outbreak of war, it has paled in comparison to the growth experienced by the Tash-Murkon region. General trends from the Empire indicate its economy will remain relatively steady, though uncertainty about the future as a result of the war in the Bleak Lands and Devoid remains.

Analysts have posited a variety of reasons for the economic upswing in the region, from the results of a long-term trend that started several years ago, to relocated merchants and nobles leaving the Bleak Lands and Devoid, to trade agreements with the reinvigorated Caldari State. All agree that the driving factor has been Catiz Tash-Murkon, the Tash-Murkon Family's chosen Heir.

"Lady Tash-Murkon has long provided stability and direction to the people of her fief," said Lord Joh Mija, one of the Holders enjoying the economic boom. "It's only natural that, now that we know she is safe from losing the Succession Trials in the short-term, the region will respond with vigor."

These sentiments were echoed by many, including those of the lower class, as exemplified by Ni-Kunni machinist Salta Makia, "With Lady Tash-Murkon in charge, I know that my home will be safe, I'll have a job the next day, and money will keep flowing into the region. It'd be a terrible thing to lose her and now I'm glad we won't have to worry about that for many, many years."
