# Caldari citizens speak out about reforms
Published on 2008-09-23T09:53:44 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/caldari-citizens-speak-out-about-reforms

****

Following the reactions from nations across the cluster, the Caldari people have spoken out in overwhelming support of the Heth reforms, claiming outsiders aren't in any position to judge their success.

Yesterday Echelon Entertainment hosted a day-long forum, inviting people working in various occupations to attend and offer their opinion of the changes. Excerpts from the forum were screened on Caldari networks throughout today. The comments coming from State citizenry were for the most part positive and hopeful.

"A year ago we had no real way to move into management positions," said assembly line worker and father of two Utreki Makkolen. "Nowadays I'm studying four nights a week to become a foreman, along with plenty of others. Raising a family is meant to be a challenge, it's meant to be an achievement, but these new opportunities make it that little bit easier. This can make all the difference for some of us."

Perhaps the most pleasing comments for the Heth government were those made by Oduma Akkadan, a senior executive in charge of over 100,000 staff employed by his corporation, a Kaalakiota Corporation subsidiary.

"I oversaw a rise of 12% rise in our department's profits this last quarter and was rewarded accordingly," he said. "Contrary to popular belief outside the State, the Heth administration is not about hurting those of us at the top without reason. There is a difference between holding managerial staff accountable and simply hounding them...it would be hypocrisy for only some of us who work hard to be rewarded. I welcome the changes and believe they are long overdue...we are all better off for having them."

The integration of the Young Provists program into Creches across the State was the most salient point of concern for Caldari citizens, who expressed a desire for another independent review focused more closely on their performance.

Offering free or low-cost holidays to young adults, the purpose of the program as described by the official press release is to "invest in future generations by instilling a sense of duty and self-reliance." The weekend retreats focus on community-minded projects and team building exercises, as well as light vocational training. Participation so far has been significant, with one in three families participating according to Dr. Saari's report.

"My children seem to love the camps," said Administrative Assistant Suresen Takin. "I've no doubt they're learning vital skills that will benefit them later on. My only concern is the impact this time out from their family and school work has over the long term. As the program matures, some studies into that would be very welcome."

Other parents said they had decided against letting their children attend at all. "If I let my children go to these weekend camps I'd never see them," said one mother.

State officials said they appreciated the feedback from the forum and were monitoring the progress of all reforms carefully. "There is certainly a balance that needs to be struck," said the Lonetrek Regional Manager of the Young Provist program, Aremi Litaanen. "We're listening closely and working tremendously hard to find and maintain it."
