# Alliance Tournament V : Competitors' Introduction - Part IX
Published on 2008-02-29T03:13:23 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/alliance-tournament-v-competitors-introduction-part-ix

The **Fifth Alliance Tournament** is almost upon us. This year’s entrants include a number of new, smaller and mostly unknown alliances as well as the established tournament veterans. 

Next in our series of Alliance introductions, we present _**KIA Alliance** and **Ushra’Khan**_. 

Amongst the hopeful Alliances looking to make their mark in history as champions, these two will be fighting the closing match of Day One. Both members of **Group H** , they have faced each other in combat in the past and must now face each other once more, this time in an arena watched live by millions of spectators. 

**KIA Alliance**

* * *

KIA Alliance are a well known mercenary group who have forged themselves in the fire of battle and are well proven as competent combatants. Respected amongst their peers, they came together with Mercenary Coalition, Ev0ke and 0utbreak in Period Basis and formed the mercenary safe haven called ‘Tortuga’. 

Known for their combat capabilities, they have performed well in previous years, but have thus far failed to deliver a tournament-winning performance. Perhaps this year will be their turn to shine and they will outdo themselves, showing they have what it takes to be the best. KIAEddZ was unfortunately unavailable for further comments. 

**Ushra’Khan**

* * *

Ushra’Khan are one of New Eden’s oldest anti-slavery alliances, themselves going as far as to not represent any faction in the upcoming tournament – including the Minmatar Republic. They have instead dedicated their fights to the Defiants and the freedom of their people. Like their opposition they are very experienced combatants, well known for their long term wars against pro-slavery and pro-Empire organizations. 

With past feats such as erecting the Unity outpost in Providence, and protecting it against the attacks of CVA, they are certainly a force in their own right. Even though they may have lost their space, they have certainly not lost their bite. 

Karn Mithralia is their executor and was available to discuss their preparations in the run up to their first match. As the final flurry of excited action refined their setups and fittings, he reminisced on their previous entries to the tournament: 

“Our first tournament went well; we didn’t place in the finals but made a solid name for ourselves, faring better than many expected. As a result we found many combat-hungry forces came looking for a fight after the event.  
Our second attempt we were unprepared and heavily distracted by the war against the slavers and didn’t fare well. We intended to make up for lost time now free of the burdens of territorial defence.” 

Being in a group alongside veterans such as KIA Alliance, R0ADKILL and Morsus Mihi could be intimidating, but Karn only showed confidence and welcomed the challenge they presented, acknowledging the opponents were all respected around the cluster for their combat abilities. 

Having clashed with KIA Alliance in the past, Ushra’Khan should be familiar with their ability and what to expect from the experienced mercenaries. Asking Karn his feelings on their upcoming fight he had this to say:

“We're looking forward to it. KIA are not to be underestimated and always put up a good fight, but our combat records show we are a match for them. There will be no easing into the tournament for either team, its straight to the grinder and may the best man win!” 

Whatever the outcome of the fights to come, it can not be denied that it will be a spectacular event and these two alliances with their skill, history and tactics will surely put on a great show to round off our first day of combat. 

* * *

More coverage will be available live during the tournament. As stated, KIA Alliance will be engaging Ushra’Khan on Day One of the tournament.
