# Vigil at Landfall Shrine as Caldari Prime Violence Continues
Published on 2008-05-12T13:41:33 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/vigil-at-landfall-shrine-as-caldari-prime-violence-continues

New Caldari – As riots and a bloody police response continue on Caldari Prime, thousands of Caldari have flocked to the Landfall Shrine, one of the most sacred places in the State, to hold vigil for the victims of the violence. With clashes between Caldari expatriates, anti-Caldari extremists, and police showing no signs of ending any time soon, citizens from all over New Caldari and surrounding systems, including a number of Panel representatives, have visited the shrine to light candles, burn incense, and leave flowers. Pictures of those loved ones on the other side of the Federation border litter the site. 

On Sunday, according to caretakers in charge of administering the temple grounds, nearly a half a million people visited the shrine, more than twice the usual number of daily visitors. “It's unprecedented,” said Airos Ogemi, chief steward of the Shrine. “I've not seen anything like this in my time here.” 

Most visitors have stood vigil quietly, with silence being the usual custom within the Shrine's walls. Many, however, have been overwhelmed with emotion, and have broken down crying, especially those with loved ones on Caldari Prime. “I haven't heard from her in days,” said Waras Yamatumi, about his cousin Pakimato. “The CRC says the communications node to Caldari Prime is overwhelmed and the Federation is prioritizing official traffic. They said it could be until next week before I hear anything.” 

“I just don't understand why this is happening,” said Otsio Fukikaga, another visitor. “Our people have lived on Caldari Prime in peace since the end of the war. Why are they attacking us now? Maybe Tibus Heth is right; they just can't be trusted.” Showing us a picture of her daughter, she covers her mouth with her hand. “She went there last month to work on an archaeological dig for the STI; she was so happy. Now, I don't know if I'll ever see her again.”
