# CALL TO ARMS: Brutor Tribe Chief calls for defence of Kourmonen
Published on 2008-10-27T21:30:34 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/call-to-arms-brutor-tribe-chief-calls-for-defence-of-kourmonen

::: TRANSMISSION FROM WKUMI POL, CHIEF OF THE BRUTOR TRIBE :::

::: TO ALL TRIBAL LIBERATION FORCE CAPSULEERS :::

"I am honored to address the capsuleers of the Tribal Liberation Force. You have fought hard for our nation and our people against the encroaching Amarr Empire.  The struggle has been vicious as of late, but you have fought with skill and resilience that have made me proud."

"You may have heard that the Amarr have discovered the resting place of one of their lost Saints. We now know that he rests within the Kourmonen system. The Amarr are making a concerted push to reclaim the system and with it the remains of their Saint."

"We cannot allow this to pass. These people purposefully destroyed vast swathes of our culture when they enslaved our people and occupied our lands.  We will teach these slavers the pain of what it is to lose your culture, your identity with the past.  I have teams scouring the system searching for this Saint's tomb.  When we discover it, we will bring it to our own lands far away from the clutches of the Empire."

"But to do that we need time. I need you to hold this system for as long as you can.  The Amarr will be throwing everything at it.  Hold Kourmonen!  Hold it and we will teach these Amarr a lesson they will not soon forget.  Hold it for the memories of what they did to our people."

"For Matar!"
