# President Foiritan Addresses Nation, Confirms the Loss of Seyllin I
Published on 2009-03-10T00:00:00 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/president-foiritan-addresses-nation-confirms-the-loss-of-seyllin-i

LUMINAIRE - President Foiritan has just issued an internationally broadcast address to New Eden. The transcript is as follows:  
  
"Citizens of the Federation, fellow souls of New Eden.  
  
"It is with unspeakable regret and sorrow that I must deliver to you the news that we had hoped to never hear. Though we may have hoped that we could have prepared ourselves for this moment, I believe I speak on behalf of us all in saying that this catastrophe is the realization of our worst nightmares.  
  
"By my order, all rescue efforts have been suspended, and no recovery efforts will be permitted. It is true that the main-sequence anomaly of Seyllin has caused the effective destruction of the planet.   
  
"The decision to withhold that information and detain the reporters who sought to deliver such news was my own. Given the limited amount of time we had to pull people out, maintaining as orderly an evacuation as possible was given the highest priority.   
  
"It is a small consolation that we were able to save some people. But it will haunt me for the rest of my days that we could not save them all.  
  
"Scientists are still struggling to understand exactly what has happened. My instincts tell me that any explanation will provide little comfort.  
  
"I would like to thank all those who offered their assistance in our time of need.  
  
"As we have more information, we will share it. But if you'll please join me in a moment of silence for the half billion souls who just perished, I would be most grateful."
