# Heth: No Military Operations in the Vicinity of Seyllin
Published on 2009-03-10T00:00:00 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/heth-no-military-operations-in-the-vicinity-of-seyllin

NEW CALDARI 0920 - Caldari State Executor Tibus Heth has issued a message directed at President Foiritan, intended to diffuse escalating tensions along the border zone. In the address, he states that they are not responsible for instigating the crisis in Seyllin, but will defend themselves if provoked. The full statement is as follows:

"The Caldari State does not ever discuss the deployment of forces necessary to defend our interests. However, I feel that the current situation warrants an exception to the rule. As of now there are no military operations in the vicinity of the Seyllin System, or in fact the entire constellation of Thoulde. Although we regret the aggressive posturing by President Foiritan in the border zone, I believe that his actions stem from a lack of information regarding the fate of the planet Seyllin I, and are therefore tolerable-for now. "However, we are always vigilant. I have therefore ordered our armed forces to mobilize and prepare to defend the sovereign territory of Caldari State. They will not attack unless provoked. At the same time, I offer our assistance to the Gallente Federation in determining not only the cause of the communications disruption in Seyllin, but in providing the technical means of ensuring it does not happen again. Such is the least we can do, considering the bond we share in Luminaire. We mean no ill will towards these or other citizens of the Federation, and wish a speedy and safe resolution can be found in these trying times. Thank you."
