# Capsuleer Outer Region Political Summary
Published on 2012-01-27T13:29:57 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/capsuleer-outer-region-political-summary-113-07

YC 113.07.01 - YC 113.07.31

This month saw elements of the DRF, primarily NC., Pandemic Legion and Raiden launch an attack on the Goonswarm Federation home region, Deklein. The primary goal is believed to have been to acquire a grasp on as many technetium rich moons as possible due to their immense income potential. The initial launch of the campaign saw limited success; however the attackers were rapidly repelled. This conflict saw Deklein increase in terms of numbers of vessels destroyed from 4,529 in June to 8,390 in July.  
  
More capsuleer alliances have been moving to the Delve region, where a great deal of instability has created an almost "free for all" style situation, with 16,168 capsuleer vessels being destroyed this month. The two largest participants in this were the allies Morsus Mihi and Brick Squad, with Morsus Mihi destroying 3,896 vessels and losing 3,057 and Brick Squad destroying 2,369 and losing 2,265. 71 territorial claim units were also destroyed, indicating substantial territorial disputes.  
  
This month DED has declassified the names of the ten alliances who struck the most final blows against capsuleer vessels from the beginning of Y110 to the end of this month. For the purpose of this report they excluded any losses of shuttles, capsules or rookie vessels. They are as follows;  
  
<table>  
<tr>  
<td>



Against ALL Authorities


</td>  
<td>



149,542


</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>



Pandemic Legion


</td>  
<td>



120,577


</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>



Morsus Mihi


</td>  
<td>



109,252


</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>



GoonSwarm


</td>  
<td>



88,769


</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>



Red Alliance


</td>  
<td>



84,081


</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>



Triumvirate.


</td>  
<td>



79,197


</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>



RAZOR Alliance


</td>  
<td>



78,242


</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>



Atlas Alliance


</td>  
<td>



78,234


</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>



SOLAR FLEET


</td>  
<td>



65,438


</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>



Stain Empire


</td>  
<td>



63,599


</td> </tr> </table>

  
Statistics for July:  
Supercapitals destroyed: 2 titans, 29 supercarriers  
Supercapitals built: 23 titans, 108 supercarriers  
Outposts built: 19
