# Capsuleer Outer Region Political Summary
Published on 2012-01-27T13:32:04 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/capsuleer-outer-region-political-summary-113-09

YC 113.09.01 - YC 113.09.30

September saw continued pressure from White Noise, Red Alliance and their allies being put on Against All Authorities (AAA). AAA lost several stations, with a total of 16 stations falling to the attackers this month. Despite the amount of territory exchanging hands, the number of capsuleer ships being destroyed in the process was relatively low, totalling only 8,765 for the month compared to 19,420 in August.  
  
Delve however has regained the top spot that it had held for several months prior to August, coming in at 17,733 ship losses there this month. Whilst the main alliances involved continued to be Morsus Mihi and Brick Squad, both TEST Alliance and Goonswarm also moved in to take part in the ongoing near free-for-all.  
  
Morsus Mihi and RED.Overlord both lost substantial holdings within Delve, Morsus Mihi to Goonswarm and RED.Overlord to The Polaris Syndicate. With such flipping of sovereignty on-going, it's hard to see any stability in the near future for Delve.

This month, DED is declassifying it's records for the numbers of alliance capsuleer vessels that CONCORD have been forced to destroy due to various crimes, mainly due to opening fire on an innocent pilot within high security space. The following five alliances committed the most violations of the law:  
  
<table>  
<tr>  
<td>



GoonSwarm


</td>  
<td>



5,051


</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>



Test Alliance Please Ignore


</td>  
<td>



2,947


</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>



Against ALL Authorities


</td>  
<td>



1,217


</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>



B A N E


</td>  
<td>



1,187


</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>



Goonswarm Federation


</td>  
<td>



1,027


</td> </tr> </table>

  
Statistics for September:  
Supercapitals destroyed: 4 titans, 27 supercarriers  
Supercapitals built: 23 titans, 109 supercarriers  
Outposts built: 14
