# Alliance Tournament XIII Draw Results
Published on 2015-06-11T20:44:20 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/alliance-tournament-xiii-draw-results

Greetings glory-seeking spaceship pilots

A total of 90 teams have put their names forward to enter Alliance Tournament XIII, but only 64 will be chosen to compete in this grueling contest.

For Alliance Tournament XIII, we extended the option to the teams that placed in the top 16 of Alliance Tournament XIII to directly buy-in to the tournament. Of those 16 teams, the 12 that elected to exercise this option are:

  1. The Camel Empire
  2. Nulli Secunda
  3. Pandemic Legion
  4. The Tuskers Co.
  5. The Afterlife.
  6. THE R0NIN
  7. Test Alliance Please Ignore
  8. Exodus.
  9. Rote Kapelle
  10. Tactical Narcotics Team
  11. Shadow Cartel
  12. M.I.F



As 4 teams from the top 16 of AT XII elected not to use their buy-in, a total of 48 teams were selected in the random draw. The teams selected are (in order):

  1. Black Legion.
  2. The G0dfathers
  3. Clockwork Pineapple
  4. CAStabouts
  5. Scary Wormhole People
  6. Brave Collective
  7. Hard Knocks Citizens
  8. The Methodical Alliance
  9. Triumvirate.
  10. Northern Coalition.
  11. Circle-Of-Two
  12. Dead Terrorists
  13. Out of Sight.
  14. Vox Populi.
  15. Forsaken Federation
  16. Together We Solo
  17. Curatores Veritatis Alliance
  18. Nihilists Social Club
  19. RAZOR Alliance
  20. Project.Mayhem.
  21. Gone Critical
  22. R.E.V.O.L.U.T.I.O.N
  23. 404 Alliance Not Found
  24. Alternate Allegiance
  25. The Bastards.
  26. Brothers in Arms Alliance
  27. Confederation of xXPIZZAXx
  28. Dream Fleet
  29. Verge of Collapse
  30. The Explicit Alliance
  31. Easily Excited
  32. The Gorgon Empire + The Gorgon Spawn
  33. Chaos Collective
  34. Phoebe Freeport Republic
  35. A Band Apart.
  36. Warlords of the Deep
  37. Nerfed Alliance Go Away
  38. Pandemic Horde
  39. WAFFLES.
  40. Affirmative.
  41. Suddenly Spaceships.
  42. Drop the Hammer
  43. It Must Be Jelly Cause Jam Don't Shake
  44. End of Life
  45. Quebec United Legions
  46. The Kadeshi
  47. That Escalated Quickly.
  48. SpaceMonkey's Alliance



A video of the draw taking place can be [seen here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_5EZYFIIeJw). Teams that were unsuccessful in the random draw will have their PLEX deposit returned after 2015-06-16.

The four remaining places in Alliance Tournament XIII will be distributed by silent auction. The silent auction opens at 11:00 UTC on 2015-06-12, and closes at 11:00 UTC 2015-06-15. To enter, you must have originally entered the random draw. You must then have your alliance executor send an EVE mail with the subject "Alliance Tournament XIII Bid", with the number of PLEX you wish to bid in the message, to the character "CCP Logibro". The alliance executor must also place the relevant number of PLEX in the redeeming system. Any bid made without the requisite number of PLEX being placed in the redeeming system by the close of the auction will be considered invalid. Winning teams will be announced on 2015-06-16. If multiple bids are submitted by an alliance, only the latest one before close of auction will be considered.

And finally, we are pleased to announce our player commentators that will be joining us in the studio this year. They are:

  * Sir Squeebles
  * Apothne
  * Chessur
  * Elise Randolph



If you have questions or just want to talk shop with your fellow tournament competitors, come visit the [Alliance Tournament Forums](https://forums.eveonline.com/default.aspx?g=topics&f=264).

And remember: the best ship, is championship.

-[CCP Logibro](https://twitter.com/CCP_Logibro)
