# Revenant Down in Providence
Published on 2018-01-04T11:27:00 at https://universe.eveonline.com/new-eden-news/revenant-down-in-providence

On the 17th of December YC119, at roughly 13:50 a Revenant supercarrier belonging to Mister Meseeks Lookatme was destroyed in the Providence region when it unknowingly cynoed into a defensive trap.

Providence is an area famed for the welcoming attitude residents have for new Capsuleers operating in their region. Provibloc residents allow unknown Capsuleers to come and go in their space freely, as long as they do not harm any of the residents. Despite this known policy, a small hunting party decided to take their chances on an attack of a mining fleet.

A Sabre class interdictor piloted by Beautiful Thieves, found its way into the system of FC-3YI, a system that is known to contain a regular mining fleet. The interdictor pilot decided to spring a trap and thus she waited for the ideal moment. She soon found a freighter in the asteroid belt, supposedly picking up the jetcans from the mining ships, as well as a single Procurer. She moved in quickly and bubbled the Freighter and Procurer and then burned away to get some range before lighting her cynosural field to allow the Revenant to come in and destroy the ships.

Unknown to both Mister Meseeks Lookatme and Beautiful Thieves, an interdictor belonging to Provibloc had been cloaked just off of the Procurer. As soon as Beautiful Thieves lit her cynosural field, the Provibloc interdictor decloaked and burned straight at the hostile interdictor and bubbled up. Thus, when the Revenant jumped in, it was right into a bubble.  

The Revenant immediately targeted the Provibloc interdictor and destroyed it, but during this, another Provibloc ship fitted with a cynosural field was exiting warp and a cynosural field was lit; in jumped 12 dreadnoughts, two heavy interdictors and a single Apostle. Straight away, the dreadnoughts begun targeting the Revenant and lashing out with their formidable firepower.

At this point, realizing his mistake, the Revenant pilot called in a friendly Minokawa belonging to Eonan Dmalum. Lordmopp1, the fleet commander for the Provibloc response force ordered all neutralizers to be put on the Minokawa and all damage to remain on the Revenant. After just several minutes, the Revenant was downed and the Minokawa followed soon after.

At the end of the battle, Provibloc forces had lost a total of 92 million ISK while they destroyed a total of 167 billion ISK. The battle report can be found [here](https://zkillboard.com/related/30003718/201712171300/o/%7B%22A%22%3A%5B%22154104258%5C%2F%22%5D%2C%22B%22%3A%5B%5D%7D/)

Revenant [Killmail](https://zkillboard.com/kill/66665021/)
